VOLUME  2

VOLUME 2
    The Tao of Seneca, Volume 2
   Based on the Moral Letters to Lucilius by Seneca, 
       translated by Richard Mott Gummere.

          Loeb Classical Library® edition 
          Volume 1 first published 1917; 
         Volume 2 first published in 1920; 
          Volume 3 first published 1925.

  Loeb Classical Library is a registered trademark of 
    The President and Fellows of Harvard College.

      Front Cover Design by FivestarBranding™ 
             (www.fivestarlogo.com)

Book Interior Design and Typography by Laurie Griffin 
          (www.lauriegriffindesign.com)

                Printed in U.S.A.
THESE VOLUMES ARE DEDICATED 
  TO ALL WHO SEEK TO BETTER 
 THEMSELVES AND, IN DOING SO, 
       BETTER THE WORLD.

             —Tim Ferriss 
     TABLE OF CONTENTS


LETTER 66  On Various Aspects of Virtue                  9
LETTER 67  On Ill-Health and Endurance of Suffering     25
THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS:  Massimo Pigliucci         30
LETTER 68  On Wisdom and Retirement                     36
LETTER 69  On Rest and Restlessness                     41
LETTER 70  On the Proper Time to Slip the Cable         43
LETTER 71  On the Supreme Good                          52
LETTER 72  On Business as the Enemy of Philosophy       64
LETTER 73  On Philosophers and Kings                    69
LETTER 74  On Virtue as a Refuge From Worldly Distractions  74
LETTER 75  On the Diseases of the Soul                  86
LETTER 76  On Learning Wisdom in Old Age                93
LETTER 77  On Taking One’s Own Life                    104
LETTER 78  On the Healing Power of the Mind             111
LETTER 79  On the Rewards of Scientific Discovery      120
LETTER 80  On Worldly Deceptions                       127
LETTER 81  On Benefits                                 131
LETTER 82  On the Natural Fear of Death                142
LETTER 83  On Drunkenness                              152
THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS: William B. Irvine         161
LETTER 84  On Gathering Ideas                          162
LETTER 85  On Some Vain Syllogisms                     167
LETTER 86  On Scipio’s Villa                           180
LETTER 87  Some Arguments in Favour of the Simple Life  187
LETTER 88  On Liberal and Vocational Studies           201
LETTER 89  On the Parts of Philosophy                  217
THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS:  Massimo Pigliucci        226
LETTER 90 On the Part Played by Philosophy 
         in the Progress of Man                        235
LETTER 91 On the Lesson to be Drawn 
         From the Burning of Lyons                     253
LETTER 92  On the Happy Life                           263
LETTER 93 On the Quality, as Contrasted With 
         the Length, of Life                           279
Profiles of Modern-Day Stoics From Tools of Titans: 
Tony Robbins, Chris Sacca, Amelia Boone                285

             SUGGESTED 
         SHORT READING
                       A
If you ever feel overwhelmed by longer reads in this book, below 
are a few 5–10-minute options that punch above their weight.
  Each of these blog posts explores how to apply practical phi-
losophies in the real world, and the first is the most important 
to me personally: 

 Fear-Setting: The Most Valuable Exercise I Do Every Month 
                (tim.blog/fear-setting)

     Stoicism 101: A Practical Guide for Entrepreneurs 
                (tim.blog/stoicism101)

    On The Shortness of Life: An Introduction to Seneca 
                 (tim.blog/shortness)

   How to Use Philosophy as a Personal Operating System: 
               From Seneca to Musashi 
                (tim.blog/philosophy)

           Discovering Kindness In The Storm 
                 (tim.blog/kindness)

     Stoicism for Modern Stresses: 5 Lessons from Cato 
                 (tim.blog/less-stress)
             Japanese: Shiki Soku Ze Ku
  English: Taken together, Shiki Soku Ze Ku suggests that 
color (a metaphor for form) is empty. Total meaning: form is 
    emptiness, a common phrase in Buddhist teaching.
      (Read vertically from top right to bottom left. 
           Each character is one word above.)

               Calligrapher: Noriko Lake
                   LETTER 66
         On Various Aspects of Virtue
                       A

I have just seen my former school-mate Claranus for the first time 
in many years. You need not wait for me to add that he is an old 
man; but I assure you that I found him hale in spirit and sturdy, 
although he is wrestling with a frail and feeble body. For Nature 
acted unfairly when she gave him a poor domicile for so rare a 
soul; or perhaps it was because she wished to prove to us that an 
absolutely strong and happy mind can lie hidden under any exte-
rior. Be that as it may, Claranus overcomes all these hindrances, 
and by despising his own body has arrived at a stage where he 
can despise other things also.
  The poet who sang

     Worth shows more pleasing in a form that’s fair,[1]

is, in my opinion, mistaken. For virtue needs nothing to set it off; 
it is its own great glory, and it hallows the body in which it dwells. 
At any rate, I have begun to regard Claranus in a different light; 
he seems to me handsome, and as well-setup in body as in mind.
  A great man can spring from a hovel; so can a beautiful and 
great soul from an ugly and insignificant body. For this reason 
Nature seems to me to breed certain men of this stamp with the 
idea of proving that virtue springs into birth in any place what-
ever. Had it been possible for her to produce souls by themselves 
10  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

and naked, she would have done so; as it is, Nature does a still 
greater thing, for she produces certain men who, though ham-
pered in their bodies, none the less break through the obstruction. 
  I think Claranus has been produced as a pattern, that we might 
be enabled to understand that the soul is not disfigured by the 
ugliness of the body, but rather the opposite, that the body is 
beautified by the comeliness of the soul.
  Now, though Claranus and I have spent very few days together, 
we have nevertheless had many conversations, which I will at once 
pour forth and pass on to you.
  The first day we investigated this problem: how can goods be 
equal if they are of three kinds?[2] For certain of them, accord-
ing to our philosophical tenets, are primary, such as joy, peace, 
and the welfare of one’s country. Others are of the second order, 
moulded in an unhappy material, such as the endurance of suffer-
ing, and self-control during severe illness. We shall pray outright 
for the goods of the first class; for the second class we shall pray 
only if the need shall arise. There is still a third variety, as, for 
example, a modest gait, a calm and honest countenance, and a 
bearing that suits the man of wisdom.
  Now how can these things be equal when we compare them, if 
you grant that we ought to pray for the one and avoid the other? 
If we would make distinctions among them, we had better return 
to the First Good, and consider what its nature is: the soul that 
gazes upon truth, that is skilled in what should be sought and 
what should be avoided, establishing standards of value not 
according to opinion, but according to nature—the soul that 
penetrates the whole world and directs its contemplating gaze 
upon all its Phenomena, paying strict attention to thoughts and 
actions, equally great and forceful, superior alike to hardships 
and blandishments, yielding itself to neither extreme of fortune, 
rising above all blessings and tribulations, absolutely beautiful, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 11

perfectly equipped with grace as well as with strength, healthy 
and sinewy,[3] unruffled, undismayed, one which no violence can 
shatter, one which acts of chance can neither exalt nor depress—a 
soul like this is virtue itself.
  There you have its outward appearance, if it should ever come 
under a single view and show itself once in all its completeness. 
But there are many aspects of it. They unfold themselves accord-
ing as life varies and as actions differ; but virtue itself does not 
become less or greater.[4] For the Supreme Good cannot diminish, 
nor may virtue retrograde; rather is it transformed, now into one 
quality and now into another, shaping itself according to the part 
which it is to play.
  Whatever it has touched it brings into likeness with itself, and 
dyes with its own colour. It adorns our actions, our friendships, 
and sometimes entire households which it has entered and set 
in order. Whatever it has handled it forthwith makes lovable, 
notable, admirable.
  Therefore the power and the greatness of virtue cannot rise to 
greater heights, because increase is denied to that which is super-
latively great. You will find nothing straighter than the straight, 
nothing truer than the truth, and nothing more temperate than 
that which is temperate.
  Every virtue is limitless; for limits depend upon definite mea-
surements. Constancy cannot advance further, any more than 
fidelity, or truthfulness, or loyalty. What can be added to that 
which is perfect? Nothing otherwise that was not perfect to which 
something has been added. Nor can anything be added to virtue, 
either, for if anything can be added thereto, it must have contained 
a defect. Honour, also, permits of no addition; for it is honourable 
because of the very qualities which I have mentioned.[5] What 
then? Do you think that propriety, justice, lawfulness, do not also 
12  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

belong to the same type, and that they are kept within fixed limits? 
The ability to increase is proof that a thing is still imperfect.
  The good, in every instance, is subject to these same laws. 
The advantage of the state and that of the individual are yoked 
together; indeed it is as impossible to separate them as to sepa-
rate the commendable from the desirable. Therefore, virtues are 
mutually equal; and so are the works of virtue, and all men who 
are so fortunate as to possess these virtues.
  But, since the virtues of plants and of animals are perishable, 
they are also frail and fleeting and uncertain. They spring up, and 
they sink down again, and for this reason they are not rated at the 
same value; but to human virtues only one rule applies. For right 
reason is single and of but one kind. Nothing is more divine than 
the divine, or more heavenly than the heavenly. 
  Mortal things decay, fall, are worn out, grow up, are exhausted, 
and replenished. Hence, in their case, in view of the uncertainty 
of their lot, there is inequality; but of things divine the nature is 
one. Reason, however, is nothing else than a portion of the divine 
spirit set in a human body.[6] If reason is divine, and the good in 
no case lacks reason, then the good in every case is divine. And 
furthermore, there is no distinction between things divine; hence 
there is none between goods, either. Therefore it follows that joy 
and a brave unyielding endurance of torture are equal goods; for 
in both there is the same greatness of soul relaxed and cheerful 
in the one case, in the other combative and braced for action. 
  What? Do you not think that the virtue of him who bravely 
storms the enemy’s stronghold is equal to that of him who endures 
a siege with the utmost patience? Great is Scipio when he invests 
Numantia,[7] and constrains and compels the hands of an enemy, 
whom he could not conquer, to resort to their own destruction. 
Great also are the souls of the defenders—men who know that, as 
long as the path to death lies open, the blockade is not complete, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 13

men who breathe their last in the arms of liberty. In like manner, 
the other virtues are also equal as compared with one another: 
tranquillity, simplicity, generosity, constancy, equanimity, endur-
ance. For underlying them all is a single virtue—that which ren-
ders the soul straight and unswerving.
  “What then,” you say; “is there no difference between joy and 
unyielding endurance of pain?” None at all, as regards the virtues 
themselves; very great, however, in the circumstances in which 
either of these two virtues is displayed. In the one case, there is a 
natural relaxation and loosening of the soul; in the other there is 
an unnatural pain. Hence these circumstances, between which a 
great distinction can be drawn, belong to the category of indiffer-
ent things,[8] but the virtue shown in each case is equal.
  Virtue is not changed by the matter with which it deals; if the 
matter is hard and stubborn, it does not make the virtue worse; 
if pleasant and joyous, it does not make it better. Therefore, vir-
tue necessarily remains equal. For, in each case, what is done is 
done with equal uprightness, with equal wisdom, and with equal 
honour. Hence the states of goodness involved are equal, and it 
is impossible for a man to transcend these states of goodness by 
conducting himself better, either the one man in his joy, or the 
other amid his suffering. And two goods, neither of which can 
possibly be better, are equal.
  For if things which are extrinsic to virtue can either diminish 
or increase virtue, then that which is honourable[9] ceases to be 
the only good. If you grant this, honour has wholly perished. And 
why? Let me tell you: it is because no act is honourable that is 
done by an unwilling agent, that is compulsory. Every honourable 
act is voluntary. Alloy it with reluctance, complaints, cowardice, 
or fear, and it loses its best characteristic—self-approval. That 
which is not free cannot be honourable; for fear means slavery.
14  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  The honourable is wholly free from anxiety and is calm; if it 
ever objects, laments, or regards anything as an evil, it becomes 
subject to disturbance and begins to flounder about amid great 
confusion. For on one side the semblance of right calls to it, on 
the other the suspicion of evil drags it back, therefore, when a man 
is about to do something honourable, he should not regard any 
obstacles as evils, even though he regard them as inconvenient, 
but he should will to do the deed, and do it willingly. For every 
honourable act is done without commands or compulsion; it is 
unalloyed and contains no admixture of evil.
  I know what you may reply to me at this point: “Are you trying 
to make us believe that it does not matter whether a man feels 
joy, or whether he lies upon the rack and tires out his torturer?” 
I might say in answer: “Epicurus also maintains that the wise 
man, though he is being burned in the bull of Phalaris,[10] will 
cry out: ‘Tis pleasant, and concerns me not at all.’” Why need you 
wonder, if I maintain that he who reclines at a banquet and the 
victim who stoutly withstands torture possess equal goods, when 
Epicurus maintains a thing that is harder to believe, namely, that 
it is pleasant to be roasted in this way?
  But the reply which I do make, is that there is great difference 
between joy and pain; if I am asked to choose, I shall seek the 
former and avoid the latter. The former is according to nature, 
the latter contrary to it. So long as they are rated by this standard, 
there is a great gulf between; but when it comes to a question of 
the virtue involved, the virtue in each case is the same, whether 
it comes through joy or through sorrow.
  Vexation and pain and other inconveniences are of no conse-
quence, for they are overcome by virtue. Just as the brightness 
of the sun dims all lesser lights, so virtue, by its own greatness, 
shatters and overwhelms all pains, annoyances, and wrongs; and 
wherever its radiance reaches, all lights which shine without the 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 15

help of virtue are extinguished; and inconveniences, when they 
come in contact with virtue, play no more important a part than 
does a storm-cloud at sea.
  This can be proved to you by the fact that the good man will 
hasten unhesitatingly to any noble deed; even though he be con-
fronted by the hangman, the torturer, and the stake, he will per-
sist, regarding not what he must suffer, but what he must do; and 
he will entrust himself as readily to an honourable deed as he 
would to a good man; he will consider it advantageous to him-
self, safe, propitious. And he will hold the same view concerning 
an honourable deed, even though it be fraught with sorrow and 
hardship, as concerning a good man who is poor or wasting away 
in exile.
  Come now, contrast a good man who is rolling in wealth with 
a man who has nothing, except that in himself he has all things; 
they will be equally good, though they experience unequal for-
tune. This same standard, as I have remarked, is to be applied to 
things as well as to men; virtue is just as praiseworthy if it dwells 
in a sound and free body, as in one which is sickly or in bondage. 
  Therefore, as regards your own virtue also, you will not praise it 
any more, if fortune has favoured it by granting you a sound body, 
than if fortune has endowed you with a body that is crippled in 
some member, since that would mean rating a master low because 
he is dressed like a slave. For all those things over which Chance 
holds sway are chattels, money, person, position; they are weak, 
shifting, prone to perish, and of uncertain tenure. On the other 
hand, the works of virtue are free and unsubdued, neither more 
worthy to be sought when fortune treats them kindly, nor less 
worthy when any adversity weighs upon them.
  Now friendship in the case of men corresponds to desirability 
in the case of things. You would not, I fancy, love a good man if 
he were rich any more than if he were poor, nor would you love 
16  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

a strong and muscular person more than one who was slender 
and of delicate constitution. Accordingly, neither will you seek 
or love a good thing that is mirthful and tranquil more than one 
that is full of perplexity and toil.
  Or, if you do this, you will, in the case of two equally good men, 
care more for him who is neat and well-groomed than for him 
who is dirty and unkempt. You would next go so far as to care 
more for a good man who is sound in all his limbs and without 
blemish, than for one who is weak or purblind; and gradually your 
fastidiousness would reach such a point that, of two equally just 
and prudent men, you would choose him who has long curling 
hair! Whenever the virtue in each one is equal, the inequality in 
their other attributes is not apparent. For all other things are not 
parts, but merely accessories.
  Would any man judge his children so unfairly as to care more 
for a healthy son than for one who was sickly, or for a tall child of 
unusual stature more than for one who was short or of middling 
height? Wild beasts show no favouritism among their offspring; 
they lie down in order to suckle all alike; birds make fair distribu-
tion of their food. Ulysses hastens back to the rocks of his Ithaca 
as eagerly as Agamemnon speeds to the kingly walls of Mycenae. 
For no man loves his native land because it is great; he loves it 
because it is his own.[11]
  And what is the purpose of all this? That you may know that 
virtue regards all her works in the same light, as if they were her 
children, showing equal kindness to all, and still deeper kindness 
to those which encounter hardships; for even parents lean with 
more affection towards those of their offspring for whom they feel 
pity. Virtue, too, does not necessarily love more deeply those of 
her works which she beholds in trouble and under heavy burdens, 
but, like good parents, she gives them more of her fostering care.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 17

  Why is no good greater than any other good? It is because 
nothing can be more fitting than that which is fitting, and noth-
ing more level than that which is level. You cannot say that one 
thing is more equal to a given object than another thing; hence 
also nothing is more honourable than that which is honourable.
  Accordingly, if all the virtues are by nature equal, the three 
varieties[12] of goods are equal. This is what I mean: there is an 
equality between feeling joy with self-control and suffering pain 
with self-control. The joy in the one case does not surpass in the 
other the steadfastness of soul that gulps down the groan when 
the victim is in the clutches of the torturer; goods of the first kind 
are desirable, while those of the second are worthy of admiration; 
and in each case they are none the less equal, because whatever 
inconvenience attaches to the latter is compensated by the quali-
ties of the good, which is so much greater.
  Any man who believes them to be unequal is turning away 
from the virtues themselves and is surveying mere externals; true 
goods have the same weight and the same width.[13] The spurious 
sort contain much emptiness; hence, when they are weighed in 
the balance, they are found wanting, although they look imposing 
and grand to the gaze.
  Yes, my dear Lucilius, the good which true reason approves 
is solid and everlasting; it strengthens the spirit and exalts it, so 
that it will always be on the heights; but those things which are 
thoughtlessly praised, and are goods in the opinion of the mob 
merely puff us up with empty joy. And again, those things which 
are feared as if they were evils merely inspire trepidation in men’s 
minds, for the mind is disturbed by the semblance of danger, just 
as animals are disturbed.
  Hence it is without reason that both these things distract and 
sting the spirit; the one is not worthy of joy, nor the other of 
fear. It is reason alone that is unchangeable, that holds fast to its 
18  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

decisions. For reason is not a slave to the senses, but a ruler over 
them. Reason is equal to reason, as one straight line to another; 
therefore virtue also is equal to virtue. Virtue is nothing else than 
right reason. All virtues are reasons. Reasons are reasons, if they 
are right reasons. If they are right, they are also equal.
  As reason is, so also are actions; therefore all actions are equal. 
For since they resemble reason, they also resemble each other. 
Moreover, I hold that actions are equal to each other in so far as 
they are honourable and right actions. There will be, of course, 
great differences according as the material varies, as it becomes 
now broader and now narrower, now glorious and now base, now 
manifold in scope and now limited. However, that which is best 
in all these cases is equal; they are all honourable.
  In the same way, all good men, in so far as they are good, are 
equal. There are, indeed, differences of age, one is older, another 
younger; of body—one is comely, another is ugly; of fortune—this 
man is rich, that man poor, this one is influential, powerful, and 
well-known to cities and peoples, that man is unknown to most, 
and is obscure. But all, in respect of that wherein they are good, 
are equal.
  The senses[14] do not decide upon things good and evil; they 
do not know what is useful and what is not useful. They cannot 
record their opinion unless they are brought face to face with a 
fact; they can neither see into the future nor recollect the past; 
and they do not know what results from what. But it is from such 
knowledge that a sequence and succession of actions is woven, 
and a unity of life is created—a unity which will proceed in a 
straight course. Reason, therefore, is the judge of good and evil; 
that which is foreign and external she regards as dross, and that 
which is neither good nor evil she judges as merely accessory, 
insignificant and trivial. For all her good resides in the soul.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 19

  But there are certain goods which reason regards as primary, 
to which she addresses herself purposely; these are, for example, 
victory, good children, and the welfare of one’s country. Certain 
others she regards as secondary; these become manifest only in 
adversity—for example, equanimity in enduring severe illness or 
exile. Certain goods are indifferent; these are no more according 
to nature than contrary to nature, as, for example, a discreet gait 
and a sedate posture in a chair. For sitting is an act that is not less 
according to nature than standing or walking.
  The two kinds of goods which are of a higher order are differ-
ent; the primary are according to nature—such as deriving joy 
from the dutiful behaviour of one’s children and from the well-
being of one’s country. The secondary are contrary to nature—
such as fortitude in resisting torture or in enduring thirst when 
illness makes the vitals feverish.
  “What then,” you say; “can anything that is contrary to nature 
be a good?” Of course not; but that in which this good takes its 
rise is sometimes contrary to nature. For being wounded, wasting 
away over a fire, being afflicted with bad health—such things are 
contrary to nature; but it is in accordance with nature for a man 
to preserve an indomitable soul amid such distresses.
  To explain my thought briefly, the material with which a good 
is concerned is sometimes contrary to nature, but a good itself 
never is contrary, since no good is without reason, and reason is 
in accordance with nature.
  “What, then,” you ask, “is reason?” It is copying nature.[15] “A n d 
what,” you say, “is the greatest good that man can possess?” It is 
to conduct oneself according to what nature wills.
  “There is no doubt,” says the objector, “that peace affords more 
happiness when it has not been assailed than when it has been 
recovered at the cost of great slaughter.” “There is no doubt also,” 
he continues, “that health which has not been impaired affords 
20  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

more happiness than health which has been restored to soundness 
by means of force, as it were, and by endurance of suffering, after 
serious illnesses that threaten life itself. And similarly there will be 
no doubt that joy is a greater good than a soul’s struggle to endure 
to the bitter end the torments of wounds or burning at the stake.”
  By no means. For things that result from hazard admit of wide 
distinctions, since they are rated according to their usefulness in 
the eyes of those who experience them, but with regard to goods, 
the only point to be considered is that they are in agreement 
with nature; and this is equal in the case of all goods. When at a 
meeting of the Senate we vote in favour of someone’s motion, it 
cannot be said, “A. is more in accord with the motion than B.” All 
alike vote for the same motion. I make the same statement with 
regard to virtues—they are all in accord with nature; and I make 
it with regard to goods also—they are all in accord with nature.
  One man dies young, another in old age, and still another in 
infancy, having enjoyed nothing more than a mere glimpse out 
into life. They have all been equally subject to death, even though 
death has permitted the one to proceed farther along the path-
way of life, has cut off the life of the second in his flower, and has 
broken off the life of the third at its very beginning.
  Some get their release at the dinner-table. Others extend their 
sleep into the sleep of death. Some are blotted out during dis-
sipation.[16] Now contrast with these persons individuals who 
have been pierced by the sword, or bitten to death by snakes, or 
crushed in ruins, or tortured piecemeal out of existence by the 
prolonged twisting of their sinews. Some of these departures may 
be regarded as better, some as worse; but the act of dying is equal 
in all. The methods of ending life are different; but the end is one 
and the same. Death has no degrees of greater or less; for it has 
the same limit in all instances—the finishing of life.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 21

  The same thing holds true, I assure you, concerning goods; you 
will find one amid circumstances of pure pleasure, another amid 
sorrow and bitterness. The one controls the favours of fortune; the 
other overcomes her onslaughts. Each is equally a good, although 
the one travels a level and easy road, and the other a rough road. 
And the end of them all is the same—they are goods, they are 
worthy of praise, they accompany virtue and reason. Virtue makes 
all the things that it acknowledges equal to one another.
  You need not wonder that this is one of our principles; we find 
mentioned in the works of Epicurus[17] two goods, of which his 
Supreme Good, or blessedness, is composed, namely, a body free 
from pain and a soul free from disturbance. These goods, if they 
are complete, do not increase; for how can that which is com-
plete increase? The body is, let us suppose, free from pain; what 
increase can there be to this absence of pain? The soul is com-
posed and calm; what increase can there be to this tranquillity?
  Just as fair weather, purified into the purest brilliancy, does not 
admit of a still greater degree of clearness; so, when a man takes 
care of his body and of his soul, weaving the texture of his good 
from both, his condition is perfect, and he has found the consum-
mation of his prayers, if there is no commotion in his soul or pain 
in his body. Whatever delights fall to his lot over and above these 
two things do not increase his Supreme Good; they merely season 
it, so to speak, and add spice to it. For the absolute good of man’s 
nature is satisfied with peace in the body and peace in the soul.
  I can show you at this moment in the writings of Epicurus[18] a 
graded list of goods just like that of our own school. For there are 
some things, he declares, which he prefers should fall to his lot, 
such as bodily rest free from all inconvenience, and relaxation of 
the soul as it takes delight in the contemplation of its own goods. 
And there are other things which, though he would prefer that 
they did not happen, he nevertheless praises and approves, for 
22  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

example, the kind of resignation, in times of ill-health and serious 
suffering, to which I alluded a moment ago, and which Epicurus 
displayed on that last and most blessed day of his life. For he tells 
us[19] that he had to endure excruciating agony from a diseased 
bladder and from an ulcerated stomach, so acute that it permitted 
no increase of pain; “and yet,” he says, “that day was none the less 
happy.” And no man can spend such a day in happiness unless he 
possesses the Supreme Good.
  We therefore find mentioned, even by Epicurus,[20] those 
goods which one would prefer not to experience; which, how-
ever, because circumstances have decided thus, must be welcomed 
and approved and placed on a level with the highest goods. We 
cannot say that the good which has rounded out[21] a happy life, 
the good for which Epicurus rendered thanks in the last words 
he uttered, is not equal to the greatest.
  Allow me, excellent Lucilius, to utter a still bolder word: if any 
goods could be greater than others, I should prefer those which 
seem harsh to those which are mild and alluring, and should 
pronounce them greater. For it is more of an accomplishment 
to break one’s way through difficulties than to keep joy within 
bounds.
  It requires the same use of reason, I am fully aware, for a man 
to endure prosperity well and also to endure misfortune bravely. 
What man may be just as brave who sleeps in front of the ramparts 
without fear of danger when no enemy attacks the camp, as the 
man who, when the tendons of his legs have been severed, holds 
himself up on his knees and does not let fall his weapons; but it 
is to the blood-stained soldier returning from the front that men 
cry: “Well done, thou hero!”[22] And therefore I should bestow 
greater praise upon those goods that have stood trial and show 
courage, and have fought it out with fortune.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 23

  Should I hesitate whether to give greater praise to the maimed 
and shrivelled hand of Mucius[23] than to the uninjured hand of 
the bravest man in the world? There stood Mucius, despising the 
enemy and despising the fire, and watched his hand as it dripped 
blood over the fire on his enemy’s altar, until Porsenna, envy-
ing the fame of the hero whose punishment he was advocating, 
ordered the fire to be removed against the will of the victim.
  Why should I not reckon this good among the primary goods, 
and deem it in so far greater than those other goods which are 
unattended by danger and have made no trial of fortune, as it is 
a rarer thing to have overcome a foe with a hand lost than with a 
hand armed? “What then?” you say; “shall you desire this good for 
yourself?” Of course I shall. For this is a thing that a man cannot 
achieve unless he can also desire it.
  Should I desire, instead, to be allowed to stretch out my limbs 
for my slaves to massage,[24] or to have a woman, or a man changed 
into the likeness of a woman, pull my finger-joints? I cannot help 
believing that Mucius was all the more lucky because he manipu-
lated the flames as calmly as if he were holding out his hand to 
the manipulator. He had wiped out all his previous mistakes; he 
finished the war unarmed and maimed; and with that stump of 
a hand he conquered two kings.[25] Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Vergil, Aeneid, v. 344.
  2. Seneca is not speaking here of the three generic virtues (physical, ethical, 
  logical), nor of the three kinds of goods (based on bodily advantage) 
  which were classified by the Peripatetic school; he is only speaking of 
  three sorts of circumstances under which the good can manifest itself. 
  And in §§ 36 ff. he shows that he regards only the first two classes as real 
  goods. See Zeller, Stoics, p. 230, n. 3.
  3. Siccus  (not in the sense of Ep. xviii. 4) here means “vigorous,” “healthy,” 
  “dry”; i.e., free from dropsy, catarrh, etc.
  4. Cf., from among many passages, Ep. lxxi. 20 f. and xcii. 16 ff.
  5. i.e., constancy, fidelity, etc.
24    THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  6. Ratio  (λόγος) is also defined as God, as Absolute Truth, Destiny, etc. 
   The same idea is evident in the definition ofsapientia  (the object of 
   philosophy) as rerum divinarum et humanarum . . . scientia (Cic. Off. ii. 2. 
   5, etc.), and nosse divina et humana et horum causas, etc.
  7. A Spanish city, reduced and razed to the ground in 133 B.C. by Scipio 
   Africanus, the conqueror of Carthage.
  8. Cf. Ep. xxxi. 4 and footnote (Vol. I.).
  9. Cf. Cicero, De Fin. ii. 14 f. Rackham translates as “moral worth”—a 
   reminiscence of τὸ καλόν.
10. One of the stock bits of heroism attributed to the ideal wise man. Cf. 
   Epicurus (Frag. 601 Usener), Cicero, Tusc. ii. 7. 17, etc.
11. A slight variation of the idea in Cicero, De Orat. i. 196 si nos . . . nostra 
   patria delectat, cuius rei tanta est vis ac tanta natura, ut Ithacam illam 
   in asperrimis saxulis tamquam nidulum adfixam sapientissimus vir 
   immortalitati anteponeret.
12. i.e., of the soul, of the body, and of external goods.
13. Buecheler thinks that this alliterative phrase of Seneca’s is an echo of some 
   popular proverb or line taken from a play.
14. Here Seneca is reminding Lucillius, as he so often does in the earlier 
   letters, that the evidence of the senses is only a stepping-stone to higher 
   ideas—an Epicurean tenet.
15. Another definition, developing further the thought expressed in § 12.
16. Transcriber’s  Note: The Latin, which Gummere translates politely, is: 
   “Aliquem concubitus extinxit,” i.e., “Others are extinguished during sex.”
17. Frag. 434 Usener.
18. Frag. 449 Usener.
19. Frag. 138 Usener.
20. See above, § 47.
21. Clausula  has, among other meanings, that of “a period” (Quintil. viii. 5), 
   and “the rhythmic close of a period” (Cic. De Orat. iii. 192).
22. For a full discussion of this phrase see Conington, Excursus to Vergil’s 
   Aeneid, ix. 641.
23. For the story see Livy, ii. 12 ff.
24. A rare word—sometimes spelled malacisso—used by Plautus (Bacch. 73) 
   and Laberius, but not in a technical sense.
25. Porsenna and Tarquin.
                   LETTER 67
  On Ill-Health and Endurance of Suffering
                       A

If  I may begin with a commonplace remark,[1] spring is gradually 
disclosing itself; but though it is rounding into summer, when you 
would expect hot weather, it has kept rather cool, and one cannot 
yet be sure of it. For it often slides back into winter weather. Do 
you wish to know how uncertain it still is? I do not yet trust myself 
to a bath which is absolutely cold; even at this time I break its chill. 
You may say that this is no way to show the endurance either of 
heat or of cold; very true, dear Lucilius, but at my time of life one 
is at length contented with the natural chill of the body. I can 
scarcely thaw out in the middle of summer. Accordingly, I spend 
most of the time bundled up; and I thank old age for keeping me 
fastened to my bed.[2] Why should I not thank old age on this 
account? That which I ought not to wish to do, I lack the ability 
to do. Most of my converse is with books. Whenever your letters 
arrive, I imagine that I am with you, and I have the feeling that I 
am about to speak my answer, instead of writing it. Therefore let 
us together investigate the nature of this problem of yours, just 
as if we were conversing with one another.[3]
  You ask me whether every good is desirable. You say: “If it is 
a good to be brave under torture, to go to the stake with a stout 
heart, to endure illness with resignation, it follows that these 
things are desirable. But I do not see that any of them is worth 
26  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

praying for. At any rate I have as yet known of no man who has 
paid a vow by reason of having been cut to pieces by the rod, or 
twisted out of shape by the gout, or made taller by the rack.”
  My dear Lucilius, you must distinguish between these cases; 
you will then comprehend that there is something in them that 
is to be desired. I should prefer to be free from torture; but if the 
time comes when it must be endured, I shall desire that I may 
conduct myself therein with bravery, honour, and courage. Of 
course I prefer that war should not occur; but if war does occur, 
I shall desire that I may nobly endure the wounds, the starva-
tion, and all that the exigency of war brings. Nor am I so mad 
as to crave illness; but if I must suffer illness, I shall desire that I 
may do nothing which shows lack of restraint, and nothing that 
is unmanly. The conclusion is, not that hardships are desirable, 
but that virtue is desirable, which enables us patiently to endure 
hardships.
  Certain of our school,[4] think that, of all such qualities, a stout 
endurance is not desirable—though not to be deprecated either—
because we ought to seek by prayer only the good which is unal-
loyed, peaceful, and beyond the reach of trouble. Personally, I do 
not agree with them. And why? First, because it is impossible for 
anything to be good without being also desirable. Because, again, 
if virtue is desirable, and if nothing that is good lacks virtue, then 
everything good is desirable. And, lastly, because a brave endur-
ance even under torture is desirable.
  At this point I ask you: is not bravery desirable? And yet brav-
ery despises and challenges danger. The most beautiful and most 
admirable part of bravery is that it does not shrink from the stake, 
advances to meet wounds, and sometimes does not even avoid the 
spear, but meets it with opposing breast. If bravery is desirable, so 
is patient endurance of torture; for this is a part of bravery. Only 
sift these things, as I have suggested; then there will be nothing 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 27

which can lead you astray. For it is not mere endurance of tor-
ture, but brave endurance, that is desirable. I therefore desire that 
“brave” endurance; and this is virtue.
  “But,” you say, “who ever desired such a thing for himself?” 
Some prayers are open and outspoken, when the requests are 
offered specifically; other prayers are indirectly expressed, when 
they include many requests under one title. For example, I desire 
a life of honour. Now a life of honour includes various kinds of 
conduct; it may include the chest in which Regulus was confined, 
or the wound of Cato which was torn open by Cato’s own hand, 
or the exile of Rutilius,[5] or the cup of poison which removed 
Socrates from gaol to heaven. Accordingly, in praying for a life 
of honour, I have prayed also for those things without which, on 
some occasions, life cannot be honourable

     O thrice and four times blest were they

     Who underneath the lofty walls of Troy
     Met happy death before their parents’ eyes! [6]

  What does it matter whether you offer this prayer for some 
individual, or admit that it was desirable in the past?
  Decius sacrificed himself for the State; he set spurs to his horse 
and rushed into the midst of the foe, seeking death. The second 
Decius, rivalling his father’s valour, reproducing the words which 
had become sacred[7] and already household words, dashed into 
the thickest of the fight, anxious only that his sacrifice might bring 
omen of success,[8] and regarding a noble death as a thing to be 
desired. Do you doubt, then, whether it is best to die glorious and 
performing some deed of valour?
  When one endures torture bravely, one is using all the virtues. 
Endurance may perhaps be the only virtue that is on view and 
most manifest; but bravery is there too, and endurance and resig-
nation and long-suffering are its branches. There, too, is foresight; 
28  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

for without foresight no plan can be undertaken; it is foresight that 
advises one to bear as bravely as possible the things one cannot 
avoid. There also is steadfastness, which cannot be dislodged from 
its position, which the wrench of no force can cause to abandon 
its purpose. There is the whole inseparable company of virtues; 
every honourable act is the work of one single virtue, but it is in 
accordance with the judgment of the whole council. And that 
which is approved by all the virtues, even though it seems to be 
the work of one alone, is desirable.
  What? Do you think that those things only are desirable which 
come to us amid pleasure and ease, and which we bedeck our 
doors to welcome?[9] There are certain goods whose features 
are forbidding. There are certain prayers which are offered by 
a throng, not of men who rejoice, but of men who bow down 
reverently and worship.
  Was it not in this fashion, think you, that Regulus prayed that 
he might reach Carthage? Clothe yourself with a hero’s courage, 
and withdraw for a little space from the opinions of the common 
man. Form a proper conception of the image of virtue, a thing 
of exceeding beauty and grandeur; this image is not to be wor-
shipped by us with incense or garlands, but with sweat and blood.
  Behold Marcus Cato, laying upon that hallowed breast his 
unspotted hands, and tearing apart the wounds which had not 
gone deep enough to kill him! Which, pray, shall you say to him: 
“I hope all will be as you wish,” and “I am grieved,” or shall it be 
“Good fortune in your undertaking!”?
  In this connexion I think of our friend Demetrius, who calls 
an easy existence, untroubled by the attacks of Fortune, a “Dead 
S e a .” [10] If you have nothing to stir you up and rouse you to action, 
nothing which will test your resolution by its threats and hostili-
ties; if you recline in unshaken comfort, it is not tranquillity; it 
is merely a flat calm.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     29

   The Stoic Attalus was wont to say: “I should prefer that Fortune 
keep me in her camp rather than in the lap of luxury. If I am 
tortured, but bear it bravely, all is well; if I die, but die bravely, it 
is also well.” Listen to Epicurus; he will tell you that it is actually 
pleasant.[11] I myself shall never apply an effeminate word to an act 
so honourable and austere. If I go to the stake, I shall go unbeaten. 
   Why should I not regard this as desirable—not because the 
fire, burns me, but because it does not overcome me? Nothing 
is more excellent or more beautiful than virtue; whatever we do 
in obedience to her orders is both good and desirable. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. See Introduction (Vol. I. p. x), and the opening sentences of Epp. lxxvii., 
   lxxxvii., and others.
  2. Seneca had a delicate constitution (see Introduction). In the letters he 
   speaks of suffering from asthma (liv.), catarrh (lxxviii.), and fever (civ.).
  3. Cf.  lxxv.  1 qualis sermo meus esset, si una sederemus aut ambularemus.
  4. i.e., the Stoics.
  5. Banished from Rome in 92 B.C. Cf. Ep. xxiv. 4.
  6. Vergil, Aeneid, i. 94 ff.
  7. Cf. Livy, vii. 9. 6 ff. . . .legiones  auxiliaque hostium mecum deis manibus 
   Tellurique devoveo.
  8. Ut  litaret: i.e., that by his sacrifice he might secure an omen of success. Cf. 
   Pliny, N. H. viii. 45, and Suetonius, Augustus, 96: “At the siege of Perusia, 
   when he found the sacrifices were not favourable (sacrificio non litanti), 
   Augustus called for more victims.”
  9. Donaria  at the doors of temples signified public rejoicing; cf. Tibullus, i. 
   15 f.
      Flava Ceres, tibi sit nostro de rure corona
      Spicea, quae templi pendeat ante fores.
   Myrtle decorated the bridegroom’s house-door; garlands heralded the 
   birth of a child (Juvenal, ix. 85).
10. Cf. Pliny, N. H. iv. 13. Besides the Dead Sea of Palestine, the term was 
   applied to any sluggish body of water.
11. Cf. Ep. lxvi. 18.
 THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS


               How To Be A Stoic: 
     An Interview With Massimo Pigliucci

Massimo Pigliucci (Twitter: @mpigliucci) is the K.D. Irani Pro-
fessor of Philosophy at the City College of New York. He holds 
PhDs in genetics, evolutionary biology, and philosophy. He has 
written for many outlets, including The New York Times, and 
has written or edited ten books, including his latest, How to Be a 
Stoic: Using Ancient Philosophy to Live a Modern Life. His ongoing 
essays about Stoicism and its applications to modern life can be 
found at howtobeastoic.org.

Your new book offers an exploration of Stoicism through 
conversations with Epictetus. How did you decide to take this 
approach? (People think it’s a lot easier to write about the Sto-
ics than it is, don’t they? It’s really quite hard to add anything 
new when Seneca and Marcus were such flawless writers.)
  Exactly. It’s not just that Seneca and Marcus were flawless writ-
ers, it’s that there are a number of very good books out there 
written by modern authors, including yours.1 So I felt that the 
only reason for me to add a new entry to the canon was if I had 
something new to say, or a new way of saying it.
  I picked Epictetus because today he is the least well known 
of the great Stoics, and also because I have been immediately 
fascinated by his wicked sense of humor and his bluntness. The 
other reason is that I have occasions to disagree with him in the 
        THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | MASSIMO PIGLIUCCI 31

book (for instance, about his conception of God and Providence), 
which offered me the opportunity to put forth my own update of 
Stoicism for the 21st century.
  Each chapter in the book begins with an imaginary dialogue 
between me and Epictetus, who plays the role of my personal 
“daimon,” as the ancient Greeks called it. We are walking down the 
streets of Rome—where he lived for some time, and where I was 
actually writing the book—and things happen to me, and I ask 
him how a Stoic would deal with them. It’s an interesting exercise 
of self-discovery, talking to your daimon, I highly recommend it. 
Just not in public, at least not if you talk out loud…

How do you feel about the rise in popularity of Stoicism and 
the corresponding rise in critics? Obviously this is something 
your work has played a part in growing, but at the same time, I 
can’t imagine you think the audience is still quite small (com-
pared to say Buddhism or even something silly like the Law 
of Attraction).
  Right, Stoicism is clearly growing, but we are not even in the 
ballpark of Buddhism. Though there is no reason we shouldn’t be. 
In fact, I think of Stoicism as the Western equivalent of Buddhism, 
with a lot of similarities between the two philosophies (and some 
differences, of course).
  I actually tried to study Buddhism for a bit, but the parts I 
managed to get exposed to felt too alien, couched in cultural, 
linguistic, and conceptual terms that did not resonate with me. 
By contrast, when I picked up Epictetus, or Marcus, or Seneca, I 
immediately felt at home.
  I think the same is potentially true for a lot of people who 
haven’t been exposed to Stoicism yet, which is why I wrote the 
book and I keep a very active blog (http://howtobeastoic.org/) 
32  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

recounting my personal exploration of Stoicism. It has changed 
my life for the better, I think and hope it will change others as well.
  But yes, there are critics, some of them fairly harsh, if not 
downright vicious. I’m not sure why they are so afraid of the 
(limited, really) success of Stoicism, but of course Stoics have dealt 
with critics for millennia, this is just one more iteration.

What do you think Stoicism provides someone like you or 
me—or really anyone putting themselves out there and launch-
ing something—on the eve of a scary, intimidating thing like 
a book release? How have you used Stoicism as manage the 
process of publishing and now marketing?
  Good question. I keep reminding myself of the metaphor of the 
archer. As Cicero put it in the third volume of De Finibus, where 
he has Cato the Younger explain Stoic doctrines, an archer will 
do whatever he can in order to hit the target, but once the arrow 
leaves the bow, the actual outcome is not up to him. Hitting the 
target is, Cicero says, “to be chosen but not to be desired” (DF 
III.22)
  That’s the way I think about my book, or really anything else 
I try to accomplish in my life: I put forth my best effort, and 
I’m doing my best so to reach people who may benefit from it. 
But I regard the actual outcome in terms of sales, attention, etc., 
as a preferred indifferent. It really relieves a lot of pressure, you 
know…

Aside from the Stoic canon, what books—or even movies and 
documentaries—would you recommend to our readers who 
want to live a meaningful life? What would be some good 
complements to the typical Stoic reading list?
  In terms of books or documentaries, I would say the bio-
graphies of people who have good qualities of character and may 
        THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | MASSIMO PIGLIUCCI 33

therefore provide a role model against which to measure ourselves 
in order to improve. As Seneca says, “you can never straighten 
that which is crooked unless you use a ruler.” (Letters to Lucilius, 
XI, On the Blush of Modesty, 10) And I would particularly sug-
gest to seek women role models, since the classic Stoic canon is 
lacking in that respect (not a particularly Stoic fault: pretty much 
every literature before the late 20th century was deficient in that 
department).
  Specifically, off the top of my head:The  Diary of a Young Girl, 
by Anne Frank; Persepolis, by Marjane Satrapi; 12 Years a Slave, by 
Solomon Northup; Man’s Search for Meaning, by Viktor Frankl; 
Mandela, by Tom Lodge; Tom Paine: A Political Life, by John 
Keane; Euthyphro, Apology, Crito, and Phaedo, by Plato, on the 
life of Socrates. There are, of course, many, many others.
  In terms of movies, I actually have an occasional column on 
my blog dedicated to movie characters or situations that present 
a good occasion for a modern Stoic to reflect and learn from. 
For instance, Agent Foster in Imperium, with Daniel Radcliffe; 
Mark Watney, in The Martian, with Matt Damon; the Russian spy 
Rudolf Abel, played by Mark Rylance, in Bridge of Spies; Dalton 
Trumbo, played by Bryan Cranston, in Trumbo.

You’ve interacted with many aspiring Stoic students over the 
years. What have you found are the most beneficial Stoic exer-
cises that people really feel have changed their lives for the 
better?
  The philosophical diary, especially done in the way Seneca sug-
gests: “The spirit ought to be brought up for examination daily. 
It was the custom of Sextius when the day was over, and he had 
betaken himself to rest, to inquire of his spirit: ‘What bad habit 
of yours have you cured to-day? What vice have you checked? In 
what respect are you better?’ Anger will cease, and become more 
34  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

gentle, if it knows that every day it will have to appear before the 
judgment seat.… I make use of this privilege, and daily plead my 
cause before myself.… I conceal nothing from myself, and omit 
nothing: for why should I be afraid of any of my shortcomings, 
when it is in my power to say, ‘I pardon you this time: see that 
you never do that anymore?’ A good man delights in receiving 
advice: all the worst men are the most impatient of guidance.” 
(On Anger, III.26)
  It certainly helps me not just to reflect on what I’ve done during 
the day and prepare to do it better the next time, over time it also 
generates a kind of constant attitude of mindfulness throughout 
the day, since you know you’ll have to face your conscience in 
writing every evening.
  Also, the premeditatio malorum, thinking ahead to the possible 
bad stuff that can happen under whatever circumstances you will 
likely face during the day. Some people engage in dramatic versi-
ons of it, like envisaging one’s death. But that, I think, ought to be 
left for advanced students, and even then only occasionally. It is 
much more useful when applied to mundane things, as Epictetus 
does in the Enchiridion (IV): “When you’re about to embark on 
any action, remind yourself what kind of action it is. If you’re 
going out to take a bath, set before your mind the things that 
happen at the baths, that people splash you, that people knock up 
against you, that people steal from you. And you’ll thus undertake 
the action in a surer manner if you say to yourself at the outset, 
‘I want to take a bath and ensure at the same time that my choice 
remains in harmony with nature.’”
  I do that every time I go to a movie theater, because almost 
invariably some jerk will whip out his cell phone thinking that he 
absolutely has to check his messages regardless of how much the 
glare interferes with other people’s enjoyment of the movie going 
experience. It has been really useful in order to preemptively 
        THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | MASSIMO PIGLIUCCI 35

cultivate the sort of inner calm that will not ruin my and my 
friends’ evening.

Footnotes
1. Massimo is interviewed by Ryan Holiday, author of The Daily Stoic. 
                    LETTER 68
          On Wisdom and Retirement
                        A

I fall in with your plan; retire and conceal yourself in repose. But 
at the same time conceal your retirement also. In doing this, you 
may be sure that you will be following the example of the Stoics, if 
not their precept. But you will be acting according to their precept 
also; you will thus satisfy both yourself and any Stoic you please.
  We Stoics[1] do not urge men to take up public life in every case, 
or at all times, or without any qualification. Besides, when we have 
assigned to our wise man that field of public life which is worthy 
of him—in other words, the universe—he is then not apart from 
public life, even if he withdraws; nay, perhaps he has abandoned 
only one little corner thereof and has passed over into greater 
and wider regions; and when he has been set in the heavens, he 
understands how lowly was the place in which he sat when he 
mounted the curule chair or the judgment-seat. Lay this to heart, 
that the wise man is never more active in affairs than when things 
divine as well as things human have come within his ken.
  I now return to the advice which I set out to give you—that 
you keep your retirement in the background. There is no need to 
fasten a placard upon yourself with the words: “Philosopher and 
Quietist.” Give your purpose some other name; call it ill-health 
and bodily weakness, or mere laziness. To boast of our retirement 
is but idle self-seeking.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 37

  Certain animals hide themselves from discovery by confus-
ing the marks of their foot-prints in the neighbourhood of their 
lairs. You should do the same. Otherwise, there will always be 
someone dogging your footsteps. Many men pass by that which 
is visible, and peer after things hidden and concealed; a locked 
room invites the thief. Things which lie in the open appear cheap; 
the house-breaker passes by that which is exposed to view. This is 
the way of the world, and the way of all ignorant men: they crave 
to burst in upon hidden things. It is therefore best not to vaunt 
one’s retirement. 
  It is, however, a sort of vaunting to make too much of one’s 
concealment and of one’s withdrawal from the sight of men. So-
and-so[2] has gone into his retreat at Tarentum; that other man 
has shut himself up at Naples; this third person for many years 
has not crossed the threshold of his own house. To advertise one’s 
retirement is to collect a crowd.
  When you withdraw from the world your business is to talk 
with yourself, not to have men talk about you. But what shall you 
talk about? Do just what people are fond of doing when they talk 
about their neighbours—speak ill of yourself when by yourself; 
then you will become accustomed both to speak and to hear the 
truth. Above all, however, ponder that which you come to feel is 
your greatest weakness.
  Each man knows best the defects of his own body. And so one 
relieves his stomach by vomiting, another props it up by frequent 
eating, another drains and purges his body by periodic fasting. 
Those whose feet are visited by pain abstain either from wine or 
from the bath. In general, men who are careless in other respects 
go out of their way to relieve the disease which frequently afflicts 
them. So it is with our souls; there are in them certain parts which 
are, so to speak, on the sick-list,[3] and to these parts the cure 
must be applied.
38  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  What, then, am I myself doing with my leisure? I am trying to 
cure my own sores. If I were to show you a swollen foot, or an 
inflamed hand, or some shrivelled sinews in a withered leg, you 
would permit me to lie quiet in one place and to apply lotions 
to the diseased member.[4] But my trouble is greater than any of 
these, and I cannot show it to you. The abscess, or ulcer, is deep 
within my breast. Pray, pray, do not commend me, do not say: 
“What a great man! He has learned to despise all things; con-
demning the madnesses of man’s life, he has made his escape!” I 
have condemned nothing except myself.
  There is no reason why you should desire to come to me for 
the sake of making progress. You are mistaken if you think that 
you will get any assistance from this quarter; it is not a physician 
that dwells here, but a sick man. I would rather have you say, 
on leaving my presence: “I used to think him a happy man and 
a learned one, and I had pricked up my ears to hear him; but I 
have been defrauded. I have seen nothing, heard nothing which I 
craved and which I came back to hear.” If you feel thus, and speak 
thus, some progress has been made. I prefer you to pardon rather 
than envy my retirement.
  Then you say: “Is it retirement, Seneca, that you are recom-
mending to me? You will soon be falling back upon the max-
ims of Epicurus!”[5] I do recommend retirement to you, but only 
that you may use it for greater and more beautiful activities than 
those which you have resigned; to knock at the haughty doors of 
the influential, to make alphabetical lists of childless old men,[6] 
to wield the highest authority in public life—this kind of power 
exposes you to hatred, is short-lived, and, if you rate it at its true 
value, is tawdry.
  One man shall be far ahead of me as regards his influence in 
public life, another in salary as an army officer and in the position 
which results from this, another in the throng of his clients; but 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 39

it is worth while to be outdone by all these men, provided that 
I myself can outdo Fortune. And I am no match for her in the 
throng; she has the greater backing.[7]
  Would that in earlier days you had been minded to follow this 
purpose! Would that we were not discussing the happy life in 
plain view of death! But even now let us have no delay. For now 
we can take the word of experience, which tells us that there are 
many superfluous and hostile things; for this we should long since 
have taken the word of reason.
  Let us do what men are wont to do when they are late in set-
ting forth, and wish to make up for lost time by increasing their 
speed—let us ply the spur. Our time of life is the best possible 
for these pursuits; for the period of boiling and foaming is now 
past.[8] The faults that were uncontrolled in the first fierce heat of 
youth are now weakened, and but little further effort is needed 
to extinguish them.
  “And when,” you ask, “will that profit you which you do not 
learn until your departure, and how will it profit you?” Precisely 
in this way, that I shall depart a better man. You need not think, 
however, that any time of life is more fitted to the attainment of a 
sound mind than that which has gained the victory over itself by 
many trials and by long and oft-repeated regret for past mistakes, 
and, its passions assuaged, has reached a state of health. This is 
indeed the time to have acquired this good; he who has attained 
wisdom in his old age, has attained it by his years. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Stoicism preached “world-citizenship,” and this was interpreted in various 
 ways at different periods. The Greek teachers saw in it an opportunity for 
 wider culture; the Romans, a more practical mission. For further discussion 
 of this topic see Ep. lxxiii. 1 ff. Seneca’s arguments are coloured by the facts 
 of his life at this time.
2. Cf. Ep. lv. §§ 3 ff. for the retirement of Vatia:ille  latere sciebat, non vivere.
3. Causarii (Livy, vi. 6) were soldiers on sick leave.
40    THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

4. For an argument of the same sort see Horace, Epist. i. 1. 93-104:
      Si curatus inaequali tonsore capillos
      Occurri, rides . . . 
      . . . quid, mea cum pugnat sententia secum?
5. This is a reference to the saying of Epicurus, λαθὲ βιώσας, “live in 
  retirement.”
6. Cf. Horace, Sat. ii. 5. 23 ff.:captes  astutus ubique senum and vivet uter 
  locuples sine gnatis . . . illius esto defensor. Thecaptator  was a well-known 
  figure at Rome; cf. also Pliny’s notorious enemy Regulus, and Juvenal’s 
  many words of scorn for those who practiced the art.
7. i.e., Fortune’s support comes from crowds.
8. Cf. De Ira, ii. 20 ut nimius ille fervor despumet.
                   LETTER 69
           On Rest and Restlessness
                       A

I do not like you to change your headquarters and scurry about 
from one place to another. My reasons are—first, that such fre-
quent flitting means an unsteady spirit. And the spirit cannot 
through retirement grow into unity unless it has ceased from its 
inquisitiveness and its wanderings. To be able to hold your spirit 
in check, you must first stop the runaway flight of the body.
  My second reason is, that the remedies which are most helpful 
are those which are not interrupted.[1] You should not allow your 
quiet, or the oblivion to which you have consigned your former 
life, to be broken into. Give your eyes time to unlearn what they 
have seen, and your ears to grow accustomed to more wholesome 
words. Whenever you stir abroad you will meet, even as you pass 
from one place to another, things that will bring back your old 
cravings.
  Just as he who tries to be rid of an old love must avoid every 
reminder of the person once held dear (for nothing grows again so 
easily as love), similarly, he who would lay aside his desire for all 
the things which he used to crave so passionately, must turn away 
both eyes and ears from the objects which he has abandoned. 
The emotions soon return to the attack; at every turn they will 
notice before their eyes an object worth their attention. There is 
no evil that does not offer inducements. Avarice promises money; 
42  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

luxury, a varied assortment of pleasures; ambition, a purple robe 
and applause, and the influence which results from applause, and 
all that influence can do.
  Vices tempt you by the rewards which they offer; but in the life 
of which I speak, you must live without being paid. Scarcely will 
a whole life-time suffice to bring our vices into subjection and to 
make them accept the yoke, swollen as they are by long-continued 
indulgence; and still less, if we cut into our brief span by any inter-
ruptions. Even constant care and attention can scarcely bring any 
one undertaking to full completion.
  If you will give ear to my advice, ponder and practice this—
how to welcome death, or even, if circumstances commend that 
course, to invite it. There is no difference whether death comes 
to us, or whether we go to death. Make yourself believe that all 
ignorant men are wrong when they say: “It is a beautiful thing 
to die one’s own death.”[2] But there is no man who does not die 
his own death. What is more, you may reflect on this thought: 
No one dies except on his own day. You are throwing away none 
of your own time; for what you leave behind does not belong to 
you. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Cf. Ep. ii. § 3 nil aeque sanitatem impedit quam remediorum crebra mutatio.
2. Perhaps the converse idea of “living one’s own life.” It means “dying when 
 the proper time comes,” and is the common man’s argument against 
 suicide. The thought perhaps suggests the subject matter of the next letter.
                   LETTER 70
     On the Proper Time to Slip the Cable
                       A

After a long space of time I have seen your beloved Pompeii.[1] 
I was thus brought again face to face with the days of my youth. 
And it seemed to me that I could still do, nay, had only done a 
short time ago, all the things which I did there when a young man.
  We have sailed past life, Lucilius, as if we were on a voyage, and 
just as when at sea, to quote from our poet Vergil,

     Lands and towns are left astern,[2]

even so, on this journey where time flies with the greatest speed, 
we put below the horizon first our boyhood and then our youth, 
and then the space which lies between young manhood and 
middle age and borders on both, and next, the best years of old 
age itself. Last of all, we begin to sight the general bourne of the 
race of man.
  Fools that we are, we believe this bourne to be a dangerous reef; 
but it is the harbour, where we must some day put in, which we 
may never refuse to enter; and if a man has reached this harbour 
in his early years, he has no more right to complain than a sailor 
who has made a quick voyage. For some sailors, as you know, are 
tricked and held back by sluggish winds, and grow weary and 
sick of the slow-moving calm; while others are carried quickly 
home by steady gales.
44  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  You may consider that the same thing happens to us: life has 
carried some men with the greatest rapidity to the harbour, the 
harbour they were bound to reach even if they tarried on the way, 
while others it has fretted and harassed. To such a life, as you are 
aware, one should not always cling. For mere living is not a good, 
but living well. Accordingly, the wise man will live as long as he 
ought, not as long as he can.[3]
  He will mark in what place, with whom, and how he is to con-
duct his existence, and what he is about to do. He always reflects 
concerning the quality, and not the quantity, of his life. As soon 
as there are many events in his life that give him trouble and 
disturb his peace of mind, he sets himself free. And this privilege 
is his, not only when the crisis is upon him, but as soon as For-
tune seems to be playing him false; then he looks about carefully 
and sees whether he ought, or ought not, to end his life on that 
account. He holds that it makes no difference to him whether his 
taking-off be natural or self-inflicted, whether it comes later or 
earlier. He does not regard it with fear, as if it were a great loss; for 
no man can lose very much when but a driblet remains.
  It is not a question of dying earlier or later, but of dying well 
or ill. And dying well means escape from the danger of living ill.
  That is why I regard the words of the well-known Rhodian[4] as 
most unmanly. This person was thrown into a cage by his tyrant, 
and fed there like some wild animal. And when a certain man 
advised him to end his life by fasting, he replied: “A man may 
hope for anything while he has life.”
  This may be true; but life is not to be purchased at any price. 
No matter how great or how well-assured certain rewards may be 
I shall not strive to attain them at the price of a shameful confes-
sion of weakness. Shall I reflect that Fortune has all power over 
one who lives, rather than reflect that she has no power over one 
who knows how to die?
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 45

  There are times, nevertheless, when a man, even though certain 
death impends and he knows that torture is in store for him, will 
refrain from lending a hand to his own punishment, to himself, 
however, he would lend a hand.[5] It is folly to die through fear of 
dying. The executioner is upon you; wait for him. Why anticipate 
him? Why assume the management of a cruel task that belongs 
to another? Do you grudge your executioner his privilege, or do 
you merely relieve him of his task?
  Socrates might have ended his life by fasting; he might have 
died by starvation rather than by poison. But instead of this he 
spent thirty days in prison awaiting death, not with the idea 
“everything may happen,” or “so long an interval has room for 
many a hope” but in order that he might show himself submissive 
to the laws[6] and make the last moments of Socrates an edification 
to his friends. What would have been more foolish than to scorn 
death, and yet fear poison?[7]
  Scribonia, a woman of the stern old type, was an aunt of Dru-
sus Libo.[8] This young man was as stupid as he was well born, 
with higher ambitions than anyone could have been expected to 
entertain in that epoch, or a man like himself in any epoch at all. 
When Libo had been carried away ill from the senate-house in his 
litter, though certainly with a very scanty train of followers—for 
all his kinsfolk undutifully deserted him, when he was no longer 
a criminal but a corpse—he began to consider whether he should 
commit suicide, or await death. Scribonia said to him: “What 
pleasure do you find in doing another man’s work?” But he did 
not follow her advice; he laid violent hands upon himself. And 
he was right, after all; for when a man is doomed to die in two 
or three days at his enemy’s pleasure, he is really “doing another 
man’s work” if he continues to live.
46  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  No general statement can be made, therefore, with regard to 
the question whether, when a power beyond our control threatens 
us with death, we should anticipate death, or await it. For there 
are many arguments to pull us in either direction. If one death is 
accompanied by torture, and the other is simple and easy, why not 
snatch the latter? Just as I shall select my ship when I am about to 
go on a voyage or my house when I propose to take a residence, 
so I shall choose my death when I am about to depart from life.
  Moreover, just as a long-drawn out life does not necessar-
ily mean a better one, so a long-drawn-out death necessarily 
means a worse one. There is no occasion when the soul should 
be humoured more than at the moment of death. Let the soul 
depart as it feels itself impelled to go;[9] whether it seeks the sword, 
or the halter, or some drought that attacks the veins, let it proceed 
and burst the bonds of its slavery. Every man ought to make his 
life acceptable to others besides himself, but his death to himself 
alone. The best form of death is the one we like.
  Men are foolish who reflect thus: “One person will say that my 
conduct was not brave enough; another, that I was too headstrong; 
a third, that a particular kind of death would have betokened 
more spirit.” What you should really reflect is: “I have under con-
sideration a purpose with which the talk of men has no concern!” 
Your sole aim should be to escape from Fortune as speedily as 
possible; otherwise, there will be no lack of persons who will think 
ill of what you have done.
  You can find men who have gone so far as to profess wisdom 
and yet maintain that one should not offer violence to one’s own 
life, and hold it accursed for a man to be the means of his own 
destruction; we should wait, say they, for the end decreed by 
nature. But one who says this does not see that he is shutting 
off the path to freedom. The best thing which eternal law ever 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 47

ordained was that it allowed to us one entrance into life, but many 
exits.
  Must I await the cruelty either of disease or of man, when I can 
depart through the midst of torture, and shake off my troubles? 
This is the one reason why we cannot complain of life; it keeps no 
one against his will. Humanity is well situated, because no man 
is unhappy except by his own fault. Live, if you so desire; if not, 
you may return to the place whence you came.
   You have often been cupped in order to relieve headaches.[10] 
You have had veins cut for the purpose of reducing your weight. If 
you would pierce your heart, a gaping wound is not necessary—a 
lancet will open the way to that great freedom, and tranquillity 
can be purchased at the cost of a pin-prick.
  What, then, is it which makes us lazy and sluggish? None of us 
reflects that some day he must depart from this house of life; just 
so old tenants are kept from moving by fondness for a particular 
place and by custom, even in spite of ill-treatment.
  Would you be free from the restraint of your body? Live in it as 
if you were about to leave it. Keep thinking of the fact that some 
day you will be deprived of this tenure; then you will be more 
brave against the necessity of departing. But how will a man take 
thought of his own end, if he craves all things without end?
  And yet there is nothing so essential for us to consider. For 
our training in other things is perhaps superfluous. Our souls 
have been made ready to meet poverty; but our riches have held 
out. We have armed ourselves to scorn pain; but we have had the 
good fortune to possess sound and healthy bodies, and so have 
never been forced to put this virtue to the test. We have taught 
ourselves to endure bravely the loss of those we love; but Fortune 
has preserved to us all whom we loved.
  It is in this one matter only that the day will come which will 
require us to test our training.
48  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  You need not think that none but great men have had the 
strength to burst the bonds of human servitude; you need not 
believe that this cannot be done except by a Cato—Cato, who 
with his hand dragged forth the spirit which he had not succeeded 
in freeing by the sword. Nay, men of the meanest lot in life have 
by a mighty impulse escaped to safety, and when they were not 
allowed to die at their own convenience, or to suit themselves in 
their choice of the instruments of death, they have snatched up 
whatever was lying ready to hand, and by sheer strength have 
turned objects which were by nature harmless into weapons of 
their own.
  For example, there was lately in a training-school for wild-
beast gladiators a German, who was making ready for the morn-
ing exhibition; he withdrew in order to relieve himself—the only 
thing which he was allowed to do in secret and without the pres-
ence of a guard. While so engaged, he seized the stick of wood, 
tipped with a sponge, which was devoted to the vilest uses, and 
stuffed it, just as it was, down his throat; thus he blocked up his 
windpipe, and choked the breath from his body. That was truly 
to insult death!
  Yes, indeed; it was not a very elegant or becoming way to die; 
but what is more foolish than to be over-nice about dying? What 
a brave fellow! He surely deserved to be allowed to choose his 
fate! How bravely he would have wielded a sword! With what 
courage he would have hurled himself into the depths of the sea, 
or down a precipice! Cut off from resources on every hand, he 
yet found a way to furnish himself with death, and with a weapon 
for death. Hence you can understand that nothing but the will 
need postpone death. Let each man judge the deed of this most 
zealous fellow as he likes, provided we agree on this point—that 
the foulest death is preferable to the fairest slavery.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 49

  Inasmuch as I began with an illustration taken from humble life 
I shall keep on with that sort. For men will make greater demands 
upon themselves, if they see that death can be despised even by 
the most despised class of men. The Catos, the Scipios, and the 
others whose names we are wont to hear with admiration, we 
regard as beyond the sphere of imitation; but I shall now prove 
to you that the virtue of which I speak is found as frequently in 
the gladiators’ training-school as among the leaders in a civil war.
  Lately a gladiator, who had been sent forth to the morning 
exhibition, was being conveyed in a cart along with the other pris-
oners;[11] nodding as if he were heavy with sleep, he let his head 
fall over so far that it was caught in the spokes; then he kept his 
body in position long enough to break his neck by the revolution 
of the wheel. So he made his escape by means of the very wagon 
which was carrying him to his punishment.
  When a man desires to burst forth and take his departure, 
nothing stands in his way. It is an open space in which Nature 
guards us. When our plight is such as to permit it, we may look 
about us for an easy exit. If you have many opportunities ready to 
hand, by means of which you may liberate yourself, you may make 
a selection and think over the best way of gaining freedom; but if 
a chance is hard to find, instead of the best, snatch the next best, 
even though it be something unheard of, something new. If you 
do not lack the courage, you will not lack the cleverness, to die.
  See how even the lowest class of slave, when suffering goads 
him on, is aroused and discovers a way to deceive even the most 
watchful guards! He is truly great who not only has given himself 
the order to die, but has also found the means.
  I have promised you, however, some more illustrations drawn 
from the same games.
  During the second event in a sham sea-fight one of the barbar-
ians sank deep into his own throat a spear which had been given 
50    THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

him for use against his foe. “Why, oh why,” he said, “have I not 
long ago escaped from all this torture and all this mockery? Why 
should I be armed and yet wait for death to come?” This exhibi-
tion was all the more striking because of the lesson men learn 
from it that dying is more honourable than killing.
   What then? If such a spirit is possessed by abandoned and 
dangerous men, shall it not be possessed also by those who have 
trained themselves to meet such contingencies by long medita-
tion, and by reason, the mistress of all things? It is reason which 
teaches us that fate has various ways of approach, but the same 
end, and that it makes no difference at what point the inevitable 
event begins.
   Reason, too, advises us to die, if we may, according to our taste; 
if this cannot be, she advises us to die according to our ability, and 
to seize upon whatever means shall offer itself for doing violence 
to ourselves. It is criminal to “live by robbery”;[12] but, on the other 
hand, it is most noble to “die by robbery.” Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Probably the birthplace of Lucilius.
 2. Aeneid, iii. 72.
  3. Although Socrates says (Phaedo, 61 f.) that the philosopher must, 
   according to Philolaus, not take his own life against the will of God, the 
   Stoics interpreted the problem in different ways. Some held that a noble 
   purpose justified suicide; others, that any reason was good enough. 
   Cf. Ep. lxxvii. 5 ff.
  4. Telesphorus of Rhodes, threatened by the tyrant Lysimachus. On the 
   proverb see Cicero, Ad Att. ix. 10. 3, and Terence, Heauton. 981 modo 
   liceat vivere, est spes.
  5. i.e., if he must choose between helping along his punishment by suicide, 
   or helping himself stay alive under torture and practicing the virtues thus 
   brought into play, he will choose the latter—sibi commodare.
  6. See the imaginary dialogue in Plato’s Crito (50 ff.) between Socrates and 
   the Laws—a passage which develops this thought.
  7. And to commit suicide in order to escape poisoning.
  8. For a more complete account of this tragedy see Tacitus, Annals, ii. 27 ff. 
   Libo was duped by Firmius Catus (16 A.D.) into seeking imperial power, 
   was detected, and finally forced by Tiberius to commit suicide.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     51

  9. When the “natural advantages” (τὰ κατὰ φύσιν) of living are outweighed 
   by the corresponding disadvantages, the honourable man may, according 
   to the general Stoic view, take his departure. Socrates and Cato were right 
   in so doing, according to Seneca; but he condemns (Ep. xxiv. 25) those 
   contemporaries who had recourse to suicide as a mere whim of fashion.
10. By means of the cucurbita, or cupping-glass. Cf. Juvenal, xiv. 58 caput 
   ventosa cucurbita quaerat. It was often used as a remedy for insanity or 
   delirium.
11. Custodia  in the sense of “prisoner” (abstract for concrete) is a post-
   Augustan usage. See. Ep. v. 7, and Summers’ note.
12. i.e., by robbing oneself of life; but the antithesis to Vergil’s phrase (Aen. ix. 
   613) is artificial.
                    LETTER 71
             On the Supreme Good
                        A

You are continually referring special questions to me, forgetting 
that a vast stretch of sea sunders us. Since, however, the value 
of advice depends mostly on the time when it is given, it must 
necessarily result that by the time my opinion on certain matters 
reaches you, the opposite opinion is the better. For advice con-
forms to circumstances; and our circumstances are carried along, 
or rather whirled along. Accordingly, advice should be produced 
at short notice; and even this is too late; it should “grow while we 
work,” as the saying is. And I propose to show you how you may 
discover the method.
  As often as you wish to know what is to be avoided or what is 
to be sought, consider its relation to the Supreme Good, to the 
purpose of your whole life. For whatever we do ought to be in 
harmony with this; no man can set in order the details unless he 
has already set before himself the chief purpose of his life. The 
artist may have his colours all prepared, but he cannot produce a 
likeness unless he has already made up his mind what he wishes 
to paint.[1] The reason we make mistakes is because we all consider 
the parts of life, but never life as a whole.
  The archer must know what he is seeking to hit; then he must 
aim and control the weapon by his skill. Our plans miscarry 
because they have no aim. When a man does not know what 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 53

harbour he is making for, no wind is the right wind. Chance 
must necessarily have great influence over our lives, because we 
live by chance.
  It is the case with certain men, however, that they do not know 
that they know certain things. Just as we often go searching for 
those who stand beside us, so we are apt to forget that the goal of 
the Supreme Good lies near us.
  To infer the nature of this Supreme Good, one does not need 
many words or any round-about discussion; it should be pointed 
out with the forefinger, so to speak, and not be dissipated into 
many parts. For what good is there in breaking it up into tiny 
bits, when you can say: the Supreme Good is that which is hon-
ourable?[2] Besides (and you may be still more surprised at this), 
that which is honourable is the only good; all other goods are 
alloyed and debased.
  If you once convince yourself of this, and if you come to love 
virtue devotedly (for mere loving is not enough), anything that 
has been touched by virtue will be fraught with blessing and 
prosperity for you, no matter how it shall be regarded by others. 
Torture, if only, as you lie suffering, you are more calm in mind 
than your very torturer; illness, if only you curse not Fortune and 
yield not to the disease—in short, all those things which others 
regard as ills will become manageable and will end in good, if you 
succeed in rising above them.
  Let this once be clear, that there is nothing good except that 
which is honourable, and all hardships will have a just title to the 
name of “goods,” when once virtue has made them honourable.
  Many think that we Stoics are holding out expectations greater 
than our human lot admits of; and they have a right to think so. 
For they have regard to the body only. But let them turn back 
to the soul, and they will soon measure man by the standard of 
God. Rouse yourself, most excellent Lucilius, and leave off all 
54  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

this word-play of the philosophers, who reduce a most glorious 
subject to a matter of syllables, and lower and wear out the soul by 
teaching fragments; then you will become like the men who dis-
covered these precepts, instead of those who by their teaching do 
their best to make philosophy seem difficult rather than great.[3]
  Socrates, who recalled[4] the whole of philosophy to rules of 
conduct, and asserted that the highest wisdom consisted in dis-
tinguishing between good and evil, said: “Follow these rules, if 
my words carry weight with you, in order that you may be happy; 
and let some men think you even a fool. Allow any man who so 
desires to insult you and work you wrong; but if only virtue dwells 
with you, you will suffer nothing. If you wish to be happy, if you 
would be in good faith a good man[5] let one person or another 
despise you.” No man can accomplish this unless he has come 
to regard all goods as equal, for the reason that no good exists 
without that which is honourable, and that which is honourable 
is in every case equal.
  You may say: “What then? Is there no difference between Cato’s 
being elected praetor and his failure at the polls? Or whether Cato 
is conquered or conqueror in the battle-line of Pharsalia? And 
when Cato could not be defeated, though his party met defeat, 
was not this goodness of his equal to that which would have been 
his if he had returned victorious to his native land and arranged a 
peace?” Of course it was; for it is by the same virtue that evil for-
tune is overcome and good fortune is controlled. Virtue however, 
cannot be increased or decreased; its stature is uniform.
  “But,” you will object, “Gnaeus Pompey will lose his army; the 
patricians, those noblest patterns of the State’s creation, and the 
front-rank men of Pompey’s party, a senate under arms, will be 
routed in a single engagement; the ruins of that great oligarchy 
will be scattered all over the world; one division will fall in Egypt, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 55

another in Africa, and another in Spain![6] And the poor State will 
not be allowed even the privilege of being ruined once for all!”
  Yes, all this may happen; Juba’s familiarity with every position 
in his own kingdom may be of no avail to him, of no avail the 
resolute bravery of his people when fighting for their king; even 
the men of Utica, crushed by their troubles, may waver in their 
allegiance; and the good fortune which ever attended men of the 
name of Scipio may desert Scipio in Africa. But long ago destiny 
“saw to it that Cato should come to no harm.”[7]
  “He was conquered in spite of it all!” Well, you may include this 
among Cato’s “failures”; Cato will bear with an equally stout heart 
anything that thwarts him of his victory, as he bore that which 
thwarted him of his praetorship. The day whereon he failed of 
election, he spent in play; the night wherein he intended to die, he 
spent in reading.[8] He regarded in the same light both the loss of 
his praetorship and the loss of his life; he had convinced himself 
that he ought to endure anything which might happen.
  Why should he not suffer, bravely and calmly, a change in the 
government? For what is free from the risk of change? Neither 
earth, nor sky, nor the whole fabric of our universe, though it 
be controlled by the hand of God. It will not always preserve its 
present order; it will be thrown from its course in days to come.[9] 
  All things move in accord with their appointed times; they are 
destined to be born, to grow, and to be destroyed. The stars which 
you see moving above us, and this seemingly immovable earth to 
which we cling and on which we are set, will be consumed and 
will cease to exist. There is nothing that does not have its old age; 
the intervals are merely unequal at which Nature sends forth all 
these things towards the same goal. Whatever is will cease to be, 
and yet it will not perish, but will be resolved into its elements.
  To our minds, this process means perishing, for we behold only 
that which is nearest; our sluggish mind, under allegiance to the 
56  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

body, does not penetrate to bournes beyond. Were it not so, the 
mind would endure with greater courage its own ending and that 
of its possessions, if only it could hope that life and death, like the 
whole universe about us, go by turns, that whatever has been put 
together is broken up again, that whatever has been broken up 
is put together again, and that the eternal craftsmanship of God, 
who controls all things is working at this task.
  Therefore the wise man will say just what a Marcus Cato would 
say, after reviewing his past life: “The whole race of man, both that 
which is and that which is to be, is condemned to die. Of all the 
cities that at any time have held sway over the world, and of all 
that have been the splendid ornaments of empires not their own, 
men shall some day ask where they were, and they shall be swept 
away by destructions of various kinds; some shall be ruined by 
wars, others shall be wasted away by inactivity and by the kind of 
peace which ends in sloth, or by that vice which is fraught with 
destruction even for mighty dynasties—luxury. All these fertile 
plains shall be buried out of sight by a sudden overflowing of 
the sea, or a slipping of the soil, as it settles to lower levels, shall 
draw them suddenly into a yawning chasm. Why then should I 
be angry or feel sorrow, if I precede the general destruction by a 
tiny interval of time?”
  Let great souls comply with God’s wishes, and suffer unhesitat-
ingly whatever fate the law of the universe ordains; for the soul at 
death is either sent forth into a better life, destined to dwell with 
deity amid greater radiance and calm, or else, at least, without 
suffering any harm to itself, it will be mingled with nature again, 
and will return to the universe.[10]
  Therefore Cato’s honourable death was no less a good than his 
honourable life, since virtue admits of no stretching.[11] Socrates 
used to say that verity[12] and virtue were the same. Just as truth 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 57

does not grow, so neither does virtue grow; for it has its due pro-
portions and is complete.
  You need not, therefore, wonder that goods are equal,[13] both 
those which are to be deliberately chosen, and those which cir-
cumstances have imposed. For if you once adopt the view that 
they are unequal, deeming, for instance, a brave endurance of 
torture as among the lesser goods, you will be including it among 
the evils also; you will pronounce Socrates unhappy in his prison, 
Cato unhappy when he reopens his wounds with more cour-
age than he allowed in inflicting them, and Regulus the most 
ill-starred of all when he pays the penalty for keeping his word 
even with his enemies. And yet no man, even the most effeminate 
person in the world, has ever dared to maintain such an opinion. 
For though such persons deny that a man like Regulus is happy, 
yet for all that they also deny that he is wretched.
  The earlier Academics[14] do indeed admit that a man is happy 
even amid such tortures, but do not admit that he is completely or 
fully happy. With this view we cannot in any wise agree; for unless 
a man is happy, he has not attained the Supreme Good; and the 
good which is supreme admits of no higher degree, if only virtue 
exists within this man, and if adversity does not impair his virtue, 
and if, though the body be injured, the virtue abides unharmed. 
And it does abide. For I understand virtue to be high-spirited and 
exalted, so that it is aroused by anything that molests it.
  This spirit, which young men of noble breeding often assume, 
when they are so deeply stirred by the beauty of some honourable 
object that they despise all the gifts of chance, is assuredly infused 
in us and communicated to us by wisdom. Wisdom will bring the 
conviction that there is but one good—that which is honourable; 
that this can neither be shortened nor extended, any more than a 
carpenter’s rule, with which straight lines are tested, can be bent. 
Any change in the rule means spoiling the straight line.
58  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  Applying, therefore, this same figure to virtue, we shall say: 
virtue also is straight, and admits of no bending. What can be 
made more tense than a thing which is already rigid? Such is 
virtue, which passes judgment on everything, but nothing passes 
judgment on virtue. And if this rule, virtue, cannot itself be made 
more straight, neither can the things created by virtue be in one 
case straighter and in another less straight. For they must neces-
sarily correspond to virtue; hence they are equal.
  “What,” you say, “do you call reclining at a banquet and submit-
ting to torture equally good?” Does this seem surprising to you? 
You may be still more surprised at the following—that reclining 
at a banquet is an evil, while reclining on the rack is a good, if the 
former act is done in a shameful, and the latter in an honourable 
manner. It is not the material that makes these actions good or 
bad; it is the virtue. All acts in which virtue has disclosed itself 
are of the same measure and value.
  At this moment the man who measures the souls of all men by 
his own is shaking his fist in my face because I hold that there is a 
parity between the goods involved in the case of one who passes 
sentence honourably, and of one who suffers sentence honour-
ably; or because I hold that there is a parity between the goods of 
one who celebrates a triumph, and of one who, unconquered in 
spirit, is carried before the victor’s chariot. For such critics think 
that whatever they themselves cannot do, is not done; they pass 
judgment on virtue in the light of their own weaknesses.
  Why do you marvel if it helps a man, and on occasion even 
pleases him, to be burned, wounded, slain, or bound in prison? 
To a luxurious man, a simple life is a penalty; to a lazy man, work 
is punishment; the dandy pities the diligent man; to the slothful, 
studies are torture. Similarly, we regard those things with respect 
to which we are all infirm of disposition, as hard and beyond 
endurance, forgetting what a torment it is to many men to abstain 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 59

from wine or to be routed from their beds at break of day. These 
actions are not essentially difficult; it is we ourselves that are soft 
and flabby.
   We must pass judgment concerning great matters with great-
ness of soul; otherwise, that which is really our fault will seem 
to be their fault. So it is that certain objects which are perfectly 
straight, when sunk in water appear to the onlooker as bent or 
broken off.[15] It matters not only what you see, but with what eyes 
you see it; our souls are too dull of vision to perceive the truth.
  But give me an unspoiled and sturdy-minded young man; he 
will pronounce more fortunate one who sustains on unbending 
shoulders the whole weight of adversity, who stands out superior 
to Fortune. It is not a cause for wonder that one is not tossed 
about when the weather is calm; reserve your wonderment for 
cases where a man is lifted up when all others sink, and keeps his 
footing when all others are prostrate.
  What element of evil is there in torture and in the other things 
which we call hardships? It seems to me that there is this evil—
that the mind sags, and bends, and collapses. But none of these 
things can happen to the sage; he stands erect under any load. 
Nothing can subdue him; nothing that must be endured annoys 
him. For he does not complain that he has been struck by that 
which can strike any man. He knows his own strength; he knows 
that he was born to carry burdens.
  I do not withdraw the wise man from the category of man, nor 
do I deny to him the sense of pain as though he were a rock that 
has no feelings at all. I remember that he is made up of two parts: 
the one part is irrational—it is this that may be bitten, burned, or 
hurt; the other part is rational—it is this which holds resolutely 
to opinions, is courageous, and unconquerable.[16] In the latter is 
situated man’s Supreme Good. Before this is completely attained, 
60  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

the mind wavers in uncertainty; only when it is fully achieved is 
the mind fixed and steady.
  And so when one has just begun, or is on one’s way to the 
heights and is cultivating virtue, or even if one is drawing near 
the perfect good but has not yet put the finishing touch upon it, 
one will retrograde at times and there will be a certain slackening 
of mental effort. For such a man has not yet traversed the doubt-
ful ground; he is still standing in slippery places. But the happy 
man, whose virtue is complete, loves himself most of all when 
his bravery has been submitted to the severest test, and when he 
not only, endures but welcomes that which all other men regard 
with fear, if it is the price which he must pay for the performance 
of a duty which honour imposes, and he greatly prefers to have 
men say of him: “how much more noble!” rather than “how much 
more lucky!”[17]
  And now I have reached the point to which your patient wait-
ing summons me. You must not think that our human virtue 
transcends nature; the wise man will tremble, will feel pain, will 
turn pale,[18] For all these are sensations of the body. Where, then, 
is the abode of utter distress, of that which is truly an evil? In the 
other part of us, no doubt, if it is the mind that these trials drag 
down, force to a confession of its servitude, and cause to regret 
its existence.
  The wise man, indeed, overcomes Fortune by his virtue, but 
many who profess wisdom are sometimes frightened by the most 
unsubstantial threats. And at this stage it is a mistake on our part 
to make the same demands upon the wise man and upon the 
learner.[19] I still exhort myself to do that which I recommend; but 
my exhortations are not yet followed. And even if this were the 
case, I should not have these principles so ready for practice, or so 
well trained, that they would rush to my assistance in every crisis.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 61

  Just as wool takes up certain colours at once,[20] while there are 
others which it will not absorb unless it is soaked and steeped in 
them many times; so other systems of doctrine can be immedi-
ately applied by men’s minds after once being accepted, but this 
system of which I speak, unless it has gone deep and has sunk 
in for a long time, and has not merely coloured but thoroughly 
permeated the soul, does not fulfil any of its promises.
  The matter can be imparted quickly and in very few words: 
“Virtue is the only good; at any rate there is no good without vir-
tue; and virtue itself is situated in our nobler part, that is, the ratio-
nal part.” And what will this virtue be? A true and never-swerving 
judgment. For therefrom will spring all mental impulses, and by 
its agency every external appearance that stirs our impulses will 
be clarified.
  It will be in keeping with this judgment to judge all things that 
have been coloured by virtue as goods, and as equal goods.
  Bodily goods are, to be sure, good for the body; but they are 
not absolutely good. There will indeed be some value in them; 
but they will possess no genuine merit, for they will differ greatly; 
some will be less, others greater.
  And we are constrained to acknowledge that there are great 
differences among the very followers of wisdom. One man has 
already made so much progress that he dares to raise his eyes and 
look Fortune in the face, but not persistently, for his eyes soon 
drop, dazzled by her overwhelming splendour; another has made 
so much progress that he is able to match glances with her—that 
is, unless he has already reached the summit and is full of con-
fidence.[21]
  That which is short of perfection must necessarily be unsteady, 
at one time progressing, at another slipping or growing faint; and 
it will surely slip back unless it keeps struggling ahead; for if a man 
62  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

slackens at all in zeal and faithful application, he must retrograde. 
No one can resume his progress at the point where he left off.
  Therefore let us press on and persevere. There remains much 
more of the road than we have put behind us; but the greater part 
of progress is the desire to progress.
  I fully understand what this task is. It is a thing which I desire, 
and I desire it with all my heart. I see that you also have been 
aroused and are hastening with great zeal towards infinite beauty. 
Let us, then, hasten; only on these terms will life be a boon to us; 
otherwise, there is delay, and indeed disgraceful delay, while we 
busy ourselves with revolting things. Let us see to it that all time 
belongs to us. This, however, cannot be unless first of all our own 
selves begin to belong to us.
  And when will it be our privilege to despise both kinds of for-
tune? When will it be our privilege, after all the passions have been 
subdued and brought under our own control, to utter the words 
“I have conquered!”? Do you ask me whom I have conquered? 
Neither the Persians, nor the far-off Medes, nor any warlike race 
that lies beyond the Dahae;[22] not these, but greed, ambition, 
and the fear of death that has conquered the conquerors of the 
world. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. A similar argument is found in Ep. lxv. §§ 5 ff., containing the same figure 
  of thought.
  2. For a definition ofhonestum  see Cicero, De Fin. ii. 45 ff., and Rackham’s 
  note, explaining it as “τὸ καλόν, the morally beautiful or good.”
  3. See, for example, the syllogistic display which is ridiculed in Ep. xlviii. 6.
  4. i.e., from being mere word-play.
  5. Hense suggests that Seneca may be rendering the phrase of Simonides—
  ἀνὴρ ἀληθῶς ἀγαθός.
  6. Egypt—47 B.C.; Africa (Thapsus)—46 B.C.; Spain (Munda)—45 B.C.
  7. A sort of serious parody of the senatus consultum ultimum. For a 
  discussion of the history and meaning of the phrase see W. Warde Fowler’s 
  Cicero, pp. 151-158.
  8. Plato’s Phaedo. Cato slew himself at Utica, 46 B.C., after Scipio’s defeat at 
  Thapsus.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     63

  9. Cf. Ep. ix. 16 f. resoluto mundo, etc.
10. For a clear and full discussion regarding Stoic views of the immortality 
   of the soul, and Seneca’s own opinion thereon, see E. V. Arnold, Roman 
   Stoicism, pp. 262 ff.
11. Cf. § 20 of this letter: rigida re quid amplius intendi potest?
12. i.e., knowledge of facts, as Seneca so often says. Cf. Plato,Meno , 87 C 
   ἐπιστήμη τις ἡ ἀρετή, and Aristotle, Eth. vi. 13 Σωκράτης . . . λόγους τὰς 
   ἀρετὰς ᾤετο εἶναι, ἐπιστήμας γὰρ εἶναι πάσας.
13. This is the accepted Stoic doctrine; see Ep. lxvi. 5. Goods are equal, 
   absolute, and independent of circumstances; although, as Seneca here 
   maintains, circumstances may bring one or another of them into fuller 
   play.
14. e.g., Xenocrates and Speusippus; cf. Ep. lxxxv. 18. For another answer to 
   the objection that the good depends upon outward circumstances cf. Ep. 
   xcii. 14 f.
15. “An oar, though quite whole, presents the appearance of being broken 
   when seen in clear shallow water.”—Seneca, N. Q. 1. 3 (Clarke and 
   Geikie).
16. This dualism of soul and body goes back to earlier religions, and especially 
   to the Persian. The rational part (τὸ λογιστικόν), though held by most 
   Stoics to be corporeal, or part of the world-stuff, is closely related to the 
   ἡγεμονικόν, or “principate.”
17. i.e., because he has endured and conquered misfortune rather than 
   escaped it.
18. For a similar thought, cf. Ep. xi. 6.
19. Three stages of progress (προκοπή) were defined by Chrysippus. Cf. also 
   Sen. Epp. lxxii. 6 and lxxv. 8 f.
20. Ovid, Metam. vi. 9, speaks of bibula lana, and Horace, Ep. i. 10. 27, of 
   vellera potantia fucum.
21. In which case, he would be completely superior to her.
22. A nomad Scythian tribe east of the Caspian Sea.
                    LETTER 72
   On Business as the Enemy of Philosophy
                        A

The subject[1] concerning which you question me was once clear 
to my mind, and required no thought, so thoroughly had I mas-
tered it. But I have not tested my memory of it for some time, 
and therefore it does not readily come back to me. I feel that I 
have suffered the fate of a book whose rolls have stuck together 
by disuse; my mind needs to be unrolled, and whatever has been 
stored away there ought to be examined from time to time, so that 
it may be ready for use when occasion demands. Let us therefore 
put this subject off for the present; for it demands much labour 
and much care. As soon as I can hope to stay for any length of 
time in the same place, I shall then take your question in hand.
  For there are certain subjects about which you can write even 
while travelling in a gig, and there are also subjects which need 
a study-chair, and quiet, and seclusion. Nevertheless I ought to 
accomplish something even on days like these—days which are 
fully employed, and indeed from morning till night. For there is 
never a moment when fresh employments will not come along; 
we sow them, and for this reason several spring up from one. 
Then, too, we keep adjourning our own cases[2] by saying: “As 
soon as I am done with this, I shall settle down to hard work,” 
or: “If I ever set this troublesome matter in order, I shall devote 
myself to study.”
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 65

  But the study of philosophy is not to be postponed until you 
have leisure;[3] everything else is to be neglected in order that we 
may attend to philosophy, for no amount of time is long enough 
for it, even though our lives be prolonged from boyhood to the 
uttermost bounds of time allotted to man. It makes little differ-
ence whether you leave philosophy out altogether or study it 
intermittently; for it does not stay as it was when you dropped 
it, but, because its continuity has been broken, it goes back to 
the position in which it was at the beginning, like things which 
fly apart when they are stretched taut. We must resist the affairs 
which occupy our time; they must not be untangled, but rather 
put out of the way. Indeed, there is no time that is unsuitable for 
helpful studies; and yet many a man fails to study amid the very 
circumstances which make study necessary.
  He says: “Something will happen to hinder me.” No, not in the 
case of the man whose spirit, no matter what his business may be, 
is happy and alert. It is those who are still short of perfection whose 
happiness can be broken off; the joy of a wise man, on the other 
hand, is a woven fabric, rent by no chance happening and by no 
change of fortune; at all times and in all places he is at peace. For his 
joy depends on nothing external and looks for no boon from man 
or fortune. His happiness is something within himself; it would 
depart from his soul if it entered in from the outside; it is born there.
  Sometimes an external happening reminds him of his mortal-
ity, but it is a light blow, and merely grazes the surface of his skin.
[4] Some trouble, I repeat, may touch him like a breath of wind, 
but that Supreme Good of his is unshaken. This is what I mean: 
there are external disadvantages, like pimples and boils that break 
out upon a body which is normally strong and sound; but there 
is no deep-seated malady.
  The difference, I say, between a man of perfect wisdom and 
another who is progressing in wisdom is the same as the difference 
66  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

between a healthy man and one who is convalescing from a severe 
and lingering illness, for whom “health” means only a lighter 
attack of his disease. If the latter does not take heed, there is an 
immediate relapse and a return to the same old trouble; but the 
wise man cannot slip back, or slip into any more illness at all. For 
health of body is a temporary matter which the physician cannot 
guarantee, even though he has restored it; nay, he is often roused 
from his bed to visit the same patient who summoned him before. 
The mind, however, once healed, is healed for good and all.
  I shall tell you what I mean by health: if the mind is content 
with its own self; if it has confidence in itself; if it understands 
that all those things for which men pray, all the benefits which are 
bestowed and sought for, are of no importance in relation to a life 
of happiness; under such conditions it is sound. For anything that 
can be added to is imperfect; anything that can suffer loss is not 
lasting; but let the man whose happiness is to be lasting, rejoice 
in what is truly his own. Now all that which the crowd gapes after, 
ebbs and flows. Fortune gives us nothing which we can really 
own.[5] But even these gifts of Fortune please us when reason has 
tempered and blended them to our taste; for it is reason which 
makes acceptable to us even external goods that are disagreeable 
to use if we absorb them too greedily.
  Attalus used to employ the following simile: “Did you ever 
see a dog snapping with wide-open jaws at bits of bread or meat 
which his master tosses to him? Whatever he catches, he straight-
way swallows whole, and always opens his jaws in the hope of 
something more. So it is with ourselves; we stand expectant, and 
whatever Fortune has thrown to us we forthwith bolt, without 
any real pleasure, and then stand alert and frantic for something 
else to snatch.” But it is not so with the wise man; he is satisfied. 
Even if something falls to him, he merely accepts it carelessly and 
lays it aside.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 67

  The happiness that he enjoys is supremely great, is lasting, is 
his own. Assume that a man has good intentions, and has made 
progress, but is still far from the heights; the result is a series of 
ups and downs; he is now raised to heaven, now brought down 
to earth. For those who lack experience and training, there is no 
limit to the downhill course; such a one falls into the Chaos[6] of 
Epicurus—empty and boundless.
  There is still a third class of men—those who toy with wis-
dom—they have not indeed touched it, but yet are in sight of it, 
and have it, so to speak, within striking distance. They are not 
dashed about, nor do they drift back either; they are not on dry 
land, but are already in port.
  Therefore, considering the great difference between those on 
the heights and those in the depths, and seeing that even those in 
the middle are pursued by an ebb and flow peculiar to their state 
and pursued also by an enormous risk of returning to their degen-
erate ways, we should not give ourselves up to matters which 
occupy our time. They should be shut out; if they once gain an 
entrance, they will bring in still others to take their places. Let us 
resist them in their early stages. It is better that they shall never 
begin than that they shall be made to cease. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. The context furnishes no clue as to what the subject was.
2. Seneca is fond of legal figures; cf. Ep. lxv. 15. For thedilatio  see Pliny, Ep. i. 
 18. 1 rogas ut dilationem petam.
3. Cf. Ep. liii. 9 (philosophia) non est res subsiciva (“a matter for spare time”), 
 ordinaria est; domina est, adesse iubet.
4. Cf. Ep. xlv. 9 intrepidus, quem aliqua vis movet, nulla perturbat, quem 
 fortuna . . . pungit, non vulnerat, et hoc raro.
5. Cf. Lucretius, iii. 971 vita mancipio nulli datur, omnibus usu. Our lives 
 are merely loaned to us; Nature retains the dominium. Cf. also Seneca’s 
 frequent figure of life as an inn, contrasted with a house over which one has 
 ownership.
6. The void inane( ), or infinite space, as contrasted with the atoms which form 
 new worlds in continuous succession.

                   LETTER 73
         On Philosophers and Kings[1]
                       A

It seems to me erroneous to believe that those who have loy-
ally dedicated themselves to philosophy are stubborn and rebel-
lious, scorners of magistrates or kings or of those who control the 
administration of public affairs. For, on the contrary, no class of 
man is so popular with the philosopher as the ruler is; and rightly 
so, because rulers bestow upon no men a greater privilege than 
upon those who are allowed to enjoy peace and leisure.
  Hence, those who are greatly profited, as regards their purpose 
of right living, by the security of the State, must needs cherish as a 
father the author of this good; much more so, at any rate, than those 
restless persons who are always in the public eye, who owe much to 
the ruler, but also expect much from him, and are never so gener-
ously loaded with favours that their cravings, which grow by being 
supplied, are thoroughly satisfied. And yet he whose thoughts are 
of benefits to come has forgotten the benefits received; and there 
is no greater evil in covetousness than its ingratitude.
  Besides, no man in public life thinks of the many whom he has 
outstripped; he thinks rather of those by whom he is outstripped. 
And these men find it less pleasing to see many behind them than 
annoying to see anyone ahead of them.[2] That is the trouble with 

Artwork opposite by Giulio Rossi
70  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

every sort of ambition; it does not look back. Nor is it ambition 
alone that is fickle, but also every sort of craving, because it always 
begins where it ought to end.
  But that other man, upright and pure, who has left the senate 
and the bar and all affairs of state, that he may retire to nobler 
affairs,[3] cherishes those who have made it possible for him to do 
this in security; he is the only person who returns spontaneous 
thanks to them, the only person who owes them a great debt with-
out their knowledge. Just as a man honours and reveres his teach-
ers, by whose aid he has found release from his early wanderings, 
so the sage honours these men, also, under whose guardianship 
he can put his good theories into practice.
  But you answer: “Other men too are protected by a king’s 
personal power.” Perfectly true. But just as, out of a number of 
persons who have profited by the same stretch of calm weather, 
a man deems that his debt to Neptune is greater if his cargo dur-
ing that voyage has been more extensive and valuable, and just as 
the vow is paid with more of a will by the merchant than by the 
passenger, and just as, from among the merchants themselves, 
heartier thanks are uttered by the dealer in spices, purple fabrics, 
and objects worth their weight in gold, than by him who has 
gathered cheap merchandise that will be nothing but ballast for 
his ship; similarly, the benefits of this peace, which extends to all, 
are more deeply appreciated by those who make good use of it.
  For there are many of our toga-clad citizens to whom peace 
brings more trouble than war. Or do those, think you, owe as 
much as we do for the peace they enjoy, who spend it in drunk-
enness, or in lust, or in other vices which it were worth even a 
war to interrupt? No, not unless you think that the wise man is 
so unfair as to believe that as an individual he owes nothing in 
return for the advantages which he enjoys with all the rest. I owe 
a great debt to the sun and to the moon; and yet they do not rise 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 71

for me alone. I am personally beholden to the seasons and to the 
god who controls them, although in no respect have they been 
apportioned for my benefit.
  The foolish greed of mortals makes a distinction between pos-
session and ownership,[4] and believes that it has ownership in 
nothing in which the general public has a share. But our philoso-
pher considers nothing more truly his own than that which he 
shares in partnership with all mankind. For these things would 
not be common property, as indeed they are, unless every indi-
vidual had his quota; even a joint interest based upon the slightest 
share makes one a partner.
  Again, the great and true goods are not divided in such a man-
ner that each has but a slight interest; they belong in their entirety 
to each individual. At a distribution of grain men receive only the 
amount that has been promised to each person; the banquet and 
the meat-dole,[5] or all else that a man can carry away with him, 
are divided into parts. These goods, however, are indivisible—I 
mean peace and liberty—and they belong in their entirety to all 
men just as much as they belong to each individual.
  Therefore the philosopher thinks of the person who makes 
it possible for him to use and enjoy these things, of the person 
who exempts him when the state’s dire need summons to arms, 
to sentry duty, to the defence of the walls, and to the manifold 
exactions of war; and he gives thanks to the helmsman of his state. 
This is what philosophy teaches most of all—honourably to avow 
the debt of benefits received, and honourably to pay them; some-
times, however, the acknowledgment itself constitutes payment. 
  Our philosopher will therefore acknowledge that he owes a 
large debt to the ruler who makes it possible, by his management 
and foresight, for him to enjoy rich leisure, control of his own 
time, and a tranquillity uninterrupted by public employments.

     Shepherd! a god this leisure gave to me,
72  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

     For he shall be my god eternally.[6]

  And if even such leisure as that of our poet owes a great debt 
to its author, though its greatest boon is this:

     As thou canst see,

     He let me turn my cattle out to feed,
     And play what fancy pleased on rustic reed;[7]

how highly are we to value this leisure of the philosopher, which 
is spent among the gods, and makes us gods?
  Yes, this is what I mean, Lucilius; and I invite you to heaven 
by a short cut.
  Sextius used to say that Jupiter had no more power than the 
good man. Of course, Jupiter has more gifts which he can offer 
to mankind; but when you are choosing between two good men, 
the richer is not necessarily the better, any more than, in the case 
of two pilots of equal skill in managing the tiller, you would call 
him the better whose ship is larger and more imposing.
  In what respect is Jupiter superior to our good man? His good-
ness lasts longer; but the wise man does not set a lower value upon 
himself, just because his virtues are limited by a briefer span. Or 
take two wise men; he who has died at a greater age is not happier 
than he whose virtue has been limited to fewer years: similarly, 
a god has no advantage over a wise man in point of happiness,[8] 
even though he has such an advantage in point of years. That 
virtue is not greater which lasts longer.
  Jupiter possesses all things, but he has surely given over the 
possession of them to others; the only use of them which belongs 
to him is this: he is the cause of their use to all men. The wise 
man surveys and scorns all the possessions of others as calmly as 
does Jupiter, and regards himself with the greater esteem because, 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     73

while Jupiter cannot make use of them, he, the wise man, does 
not wish to do so.
   Let us therefore believe Sextius when he shows us the path of 
perfect beauty, and cries: “This is ‘the way to the stars’[9]; this is 
the way, by observing thrift, self-restraint, and courage!”
   The gods are not disdainful or envious; they open the door to 
you; they lend a hand as you climb.
   Do you marvel that man goes to the gods? God comes to men; 
nay, he comes nearer—he comes into men.[10] No mind that has 
not God, is good. Divine seeds are scattered throughout our mor-
tal bodies; if a good husbandman receives them, they spring up in 
the likeness of their source and of a parity with those from which 
they came. If, however, the husbandman be bad, like a barren or 
marshy soil, he kills the seeds, and causes tares to grow up instead 
of wheat. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. This letter is especially interesting because of its autobiographical hints, 
   and its relation to Seneca’s own efforts to be rid of court life and seek the 
   leisure of the sage. See the Introduction to Vol. I. pp. viii f.
  2. Cf. Horace, Sat. i. 1. 115f. -
      Instat equis auriga snos vincentibus, illum
      Praeteritum temnens extremos inter euntem.
  3. For an interesting account of philosophy and its relation to Roman history 
   see E. V. Arnold, Roman Stoicism, chap. xvi. This subject is discussed fully 
   by Cicero, De Off. i. 71 f., and by Seneca, Ep. xc.
  4. For this figure cf. Ep. lxxii. 7 and note; see also the similar language of 
   lxxxviii. 12 hoc, quod tenes, quod tuum dicis, publicum est et quidem 
   generis humani.
  5. During certain festivals, either cooked or raw meat was distributed among 
   the people.
  6. Vergil,  Eclogue, i. 6 f. Vergil owes a debt to the Emperor, and regards him as a 
   “god” because of the bestowal of earthly happiness; how much greater is the 
   debt of the philosopher, who has the opportunity to study heavenly things!
  7. Vergil, Eclogue, i. 9 f.
  8. In the Christian religion, God is everything; among the Stoics, the wise 
   man is equal to the gods. Cf., for example, Ep. xli. 4.
  9. Vergil, Aeneid, ix. 641.
10. Cf. Ep. xli. §§ 1 f. prope est a te deus, tecum est, intus est.
                    LETTER 74
             On Virtue as a Refuge 
          From Worldly Distractions
                        A

Your letter has given me pleasure, and has roused me from slug-
gishness. It has also prompted my memory, which has been for 
some time slack and nerveless.
  You are right, of course, my dear Lucilius, in deeming the chief 
means of attaining the happy life to consist in the belief that the 
only good lies in that which is honourable.[1] For anyone who 
deems other things to be good, puts himself in the power of For-
tune, and goes under the control of another; but he who has in 
every case defined the good by the honourable, is happy with an 
inward happiness.
  One man is saddened when his children die; another is anx-
ious when they become ill; a third is embittered when they do 
something disgraceful, or suffer a taint in their reputation. One 
man, you will observe, is tortured by passion for his neighbour’s 
wife, another by passion for his own. You will find men who are 
completely upset by failure to win an election, and others who are 
actually plagued by the offices which they have won.
  But the largest throng of unhappy men among the host of mor-
tals are those whom the expectation of death, which threatens 
them on every hand, drives to despair. For there is no quarter 
from which death may not approach. Hence, like soldiers scouting 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 75

in the enemy’s country, they must look about in all directions, and 
turn their heads at every sound; unless the breast be rid of this 
fear, one lives with a palpitating heart.
  You will readily recall those who have been driven into exile 
and dispossessed of their property. You will also recall (and this 
is the most serious kind of destitution) those who are poor in 
the midst of their riches.[2] You will recall men who have suf-
fered shipwreck, or those whose sufferings resemble shipwreck; 
for they were untroubled and at ease, when the anger or perhaps 
the envy of the populace—a missile most deadly to those in high 
places[3]—dismantled them like a storm which is wont to rise 
when one is most confident of continued calm, or like a sudden 
stroke of lightning which even causes the region round about it 
to tremble. For just as anyone who stands near the bolt is stunned 
and resembles one who is struck so in these sudden and violent 
mishaps, although but one person is overwhelmed by the disaster, 
the rest are overwhelmed by fear, and the possibility that they may 
suffer makes them as downcast as the actual sufferer.
  Every man is troubled in spirit by evils that come suddenly 
upon his neighbour. Like birds, who cower even at the whirr of an 
empty sling, we are distracted by mere sounds as well as by blows. 
No man therefore can be happy if he yields himself up to such 
foolish fancies. For nothing brings happiness unless it also brings 
calm; it is a bad sort of existence that is spent in apprehension.
  Whoever has largely surrendered himself to the power of For-
tune has made for himself a huge web of disquietude, from which 
he cannot get free; if one would win a way to safety, there is but 
one road—to despise externals and to be contented with that 
which is honourable. For those who regard anything as better than 
virtue, or believe that there is any good except virtue, are spread-
ing their arms to gather in that which Fortune tosses abroad, and 
are anxiously awaiting her favours.
76  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  Picture now to yourself that Fortune is holding a festival, and is 
showering down honours, riches, and influence upon this mob of 
mortals; some of these gifts have already been torn to pieces in the 
hands of those who try to snatch them, others have been divided 
up by treacherous partnerships, and still others have been seized 
to the great detriment of those into whose possession they have 
come. Certain of these favours have fallen to men while they were 
absent-minded;[4] others have been lost to their seekers because 
they were snatching too eagerly for them, and, just because they 
are greedily seized upon, have been knocked from their hands. 
There is not a man among them all, however—even he who has 
been lucky in the booty which has fallen to him—whose joy in 
his spoil has lasted until the morrow.
  The most sensible man, therefore, as soon as he sees the dole 
being brought in,[5] runs from the theatre; for he knows that one 
pays a high price for small favours. No one will grapple with him 
on the way out, or strike him as he departs; the quarrelling takes 
place where the prizes are.
  Similarly with the gifts which Fortune tosses down to us; 
wretches that we are, we become excited, we are torn asunder, we 
wish that we had many hands, we look back now in this direction 
and now in that. All too slowly, as it seems, are the gifts thrown 
in our direction; they merely excite our cravings, since they can 
reach but few and are awaited by all.
  We are keen to intercept them as they fall down. We rejoice if 
we have laid hold of anything; and some have been mocked by 
the idle hope of laying hold; we have either paid a high price for 
worthless plunder with some disadvantage to ourselves, or else 
have been defrauded and are left in the lurch. Let us therefore 
withdraw from a game like this, and give way to the greedy rabble; 
let them gaze after such “goods,” which hang suspended above 
them, and be themselves still more in suspense.[6]
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 77

  Whoever makes up his mind to be happy should conclude 
that the good consists only in that which is honourable. For if he 
regards anything else as good, he is, in the first place, passing an 
unfavourable judgment upon Providence because of the fact that 
upright men often suffer misfortunes,[7] and that the time which 
is allotted to us is but short and scanty, if you compare it with the 
eternity which is allotted to the universe.
  It is a result of complaints like these that we are unappreciative 
in our comments upon the gifts of heaven; we complain because 
they are not always granted to us, because they are few and unsure 
and fleeting. Hence we have not the will either to live or to die; we 
are possessed by hatred of life, by fear of death. Our plans are all 
at sea, and no amount of prosperity can satisfy us. And the reason 
for all this is that we have not yet attained to that good which is 
immeasurable and unsurpassable, in which all wishing on our 
part must cease, because there is no place beyond the highest.
  Do you ask why virtue needs nothing? Because it is pleased 
with what it has, and does not lust after that which it has not. 
Whatever is enough is abundant in the eyes of virtue.
  Dissent from this judgment, and duty and loyalty will not abide. 
For one who desires to exhibit these two qualities must endure 
much that the world calls evil; we must sacrifice many things to 
which we are addicted, thinking them to be goods.
  Gone is courage, which should be continually testing itself; 
gone is greatness of soul, which cannot stand out clearly unless 
it has learned to scorn as trivial everything that the crowd covets 
as supremely important; and gone is kindness and the repaying 
of kindness, if we fear toil, if we have acknowledged anything to 
be more precious than loyalty, if our eyes are fixed upon anything 
except the best.
78  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  But to pass these questions by: either these so-called goods are 
not goods, or else man is more fortunate than God, because God 
has no enjoyment of the things which are given to us.[8] For lust 
pertains not to God, nor do elegant banquets, nor wealth, nor any 
of the things that allure mankind and lead him on through the 
influence of degrading pleasure. Therefore, it is, either not incred-
ible that there are goods which God does not possess, or else the 
very fact that God does not possess them is in itself a proof that 
these things are not goods. Besides, many things which are wont 
to be regarded as goods are granted to animals in fuller measure 
than to men. Animals eat their food with better appetite, are not 
in the same degree weakened by sexual indulgence, and have a 
greater and more uniform constancy in their strength. Conse-
quently, they are much more fortunate than man. For there is no 
wickedness, no injury to themselves, in their way of living. They 
enjoy their pleasures and they take them more often and more 
easily, without any of the fear that results from shame or regret.
  This being so, you should consider whether one has a right to 
call anything good in which God is outdone by man. Let us limit 
the Supreme Good to the soul; it loses its meaning if it is taken 
from the best part of us and applied to the worst, that is, if it is 
transferred to the senses; for the senses are more active in dumb 
beasts. The sum total of our happiness must not be placed in the 
flesh; the true goods are those which reason bestows, substantial 
and eternal; they cannot fall away, neither can they grow less or 
be diminished.
  Other things are goods according to opinion, and though they 
are called by the same name as the true goods, the essence of good-
ness is not in them. Let us therefore call them “advantages,” and, 
to use our technical term, “preferred” things.[9] Let us, however, 
recognize that they are our chattels, not parts of ourselves; and let 
us have them in our possession, but take heed to remember that 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 79

they are outside ourselves. Even though they are in our posses-
sion, they are to be reckoned as things subordinate and poor, the 
possession of which gives no man a right to plume himself. For 
what is more foolish than being self-complacent about something 
which one has not accomplished by one’s own efforts?
  Let everything of this nature be added to us, and not stick fast 
to us, so that, if it is withdrawn, it may come away without tearing 
off any part of us. Let us use these things, but not boast of them, 
and let us use them sparingly, as if they were given for safe-keep-
ing and will be withdrawn. Anyone who does not employ reason 
in his possession of them never keeps them long; for prosperity 
of itself, if uncontrolled by reason, overwhelms itself. If anyone 
has put his trust in goods that are most fleeting, he is soon bereft 
of them, and, to avoid being bereft, he suffers distress. Few men 
have been permitted to lay aside prosperity gently. The rest all 
fall, together with the things amid which they have come into 
eminence, and they are weighted down by the very things which 
had before exalted them.
  For this reason foresight must be brought into play, to insist 
upon a limit or upon frugality in the use of these things, since 
license overthrows and destroys its own abundance. That which 
has no limit has never endured, unless reason, which sets limits, 
has held it in check. The fate of many cities will prove the truth 
of this; their sway has ceased at the very prime because they were 
given to luxury, and excess has ruined all that had been won by 
virtue. We should fortify ourselves against such calamities. But 
no wall can be erected against Fortune which she cannot take by 
storm; let us strengthen our inner defences. If the inner part be 
safe, man can be attacked, but never captured.
  Do you wish to know what this weapon of defence is?
  It is the ability to refrain from chafing over whatever happens 
to one, of knowing that the very agencies which seem to bring 
80  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

harm are working for the preservation of the world, and are a 
part of the scheme for bringing to fulfilment the order of the 
universe and its functions. Let man be pleased with whatever has 
pleased God; let him marvel at himself and his own resources 
for this very reason, that he cannot be overcome, that he has the 
very powers of evil subject to his control, and that he brings into 
subjection chance and pain and wrong by means of that strongest 
of powers—reason.
  Love reason! The love of reason will arm you against the great-
est hardships. Wild beasts dash against the hunter’s spear through 
love of their young, and it is their wildness and their unpremedi-
tated onrush that keep them from being tamed; often a desire for 
glory has stirred the mind of youth to despise both sword and 
stake; the mere vision and semblance of virtue impel certain men 
to a self-imposed death. In proportion as reason is stouter and 
steadier than ally of these emotions, so much the more forcefully 
will she make her way through the midst of utter terrors and 
dangers.
  Men say to us: “You are mistaken if you maintain that nothing 
is a good except that which is honourable; a defence like this will 
not make you safe from Fortune and free from her assaults. For 
you maintain that dutiful children, and a well-governed country, 
and good parents, are to be reckoned as goods; but you cannot see 
these dear objects in danger and be yourself at ease. Your calm 
will be disturbed by a siege conducted against your country, by 
the death of your children, or by the enslaving of your parents.”
  I will first state what we Stoics usually reply[10] to these objec-
tors, and then will add what additional answer should, in my 
opinion, be given.
  The situation is entirely different in the case of goods whose 
loss entails some hardship substituted in their place; for example, 
when good health is impaired there is a change to ill-health; when 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 81

the eye is put out, we are visited with blindness; we not only lose 
our speed when our leg-muscles are cut, but infirmity takes the 
place of speed. But no such danger is involved in the case of the 
goods to which we referred a moment ago. And why if I have lost 
a good friend, I have no false friend whom I must endure in his 
place; nor if I have buried a dutiful son, must I face in exchange 
unfilial conduct.
  In the second place, this does not mean to me the taking-off 
of a friend or of a child; it is the mere taking-off of their bodies. 
But a good can be lost in only one way, by changing into what is 
bad; and this is impossible according to the law of nature, because 
every virtue, and every work of virtue, abides uncorrupted. Again, 
even if friends have perished, or children of approved goodness 
who fulfil their father’s prayers for them, there is something that 
can fill their place. Do you ask what this is? It is that which had 
made them good in the first place, namely, virtue.
  Virtue suffers no space in us to be unoccupied; it takes pos-
session of the whole soul and removes all sense of loss. It alone 
is sufficient; for the strength and beginnings of all goods exist in 
virtue herself. What does it matter if running water is cut off and 
flows away, as long as the fountain from which it has flowed is 
unharmed? You will not maintain that a man’s life is more just 
if his children are unharmed than if they have passed away, nor 
yet better appointed, nor more intelligent, nor more honourable; 
therefore, no better, either. The addition of friends does not make 
one wiser, nor does their taking away make one more foolish; 
therefore, not happier or more wretched, either. As long is your 
virtue is unharmed, you will not feel the loss of anything that has 
been withdrawn from you.
  You may say, “Come now; is not a man happier when girt about 
with a large company of friends and children?” Why should this 
be so? For the Supreme Good is neither impaired nor increased 
82  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

thereby; it abides within its own limits, no matter how Fortune 
has conducted herself. Whether a long old age falls to one’s lot, 
or whether the end comes on this side of old age—the measure of 
the Supreme Good is unvaried, in spite of the difference in years.
  Whether you draw a larger or a smaller circle, its size affects 
its area, not its shape. One circle may remain as it is for a long 
time while you may contract the other forthwith, or even merge it 
completely with the sand in which it was drawn;[11] yet each circle 
has had the same shape. That which is straight is not judged by its 
size, or by its number, or by its duration; it can no more be made 
longer than it can be made shorter. Scale down the honourable 
life as much as you like from the full hundred years, and reduce 
it to a single day; it is equally honourable.[12]
  Sometimes virtue is widespread, governing kingdoms, cities, 
and provinces, creating laws, developing friendships, and regulat-
ing the duties that hold good between relatives and children; at 
other times it is limited by the narrow bounds of poverty, exile, or 
bereavement. But it is no smaller when it is reduced from prouder 
heights to a private station, from a royal palace to a humble dwell-
ing, or when from a general and broad jurisdiction it is gathered 
into the narrow limits of a private house or a tiny corner.
  Virtue is just as great, even when it has retreated within itself 
and is shut in on all sides. For its spirit is no less great and upright, 
its sagacity no less complete, its justice no less inflexible. It is, 
therefore, equally happy. For happiness has its abode in one place 
only, namely, in the mind itself, and is noble, steadfast, and calm; 
and this state cannot be attained without a knowledge of things 
divine and human.
  The other answer, which I promised[13] to make to your objec-
tion, follows from this reasoning. The wise man is not distressed 
by the loss of children or of friends. For he endures their death in 
the same spirit in which he awaits his own. And he fears the one 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 83

as little as he grieves for the other. For the underlying principle 
of virtue is conformity;[14] all the works of virtue are in harmony 
and agreement with virtue itself. But this harmony is lost if the 
soul, which ought to be uplifted, is cast down by grief or a sense 
of loss. It is ever a dishonour for a man to be troubled and fretted, 
to be numbed when there is any call for activity. For that which 
is honourable is free from care and untrammelled, is unafraid, 
and stands girt for action.
  “What,” you ask, “will the wise man experience no emotion 
like disturbance of spirit? Will not his features change colour,[15] 
his countenance be agitated, and his limbs grow cold? And there 
are other things which we do, not under the influence of the will, 
but unconsciously and as the result of a sort of natural impulse.” 
I admit that this is true; but the sage will retain the firm belief 
that none of these things is evil, or important enough to make a 
healthy mind break down.
  Whatever shall remain to be done virtue can do with courage 
and readiness. For anyone would admit that it is a mark of folly 
to do in a slothful and rebellious spirit whatever one has to do, 
or to direct the body in one direction and the mind in another, 
and thus to be torn between utterly conflicting emotions. For 
folly is despised precisely because of the things for which she 
vaunts and admires herself, and she does not do gladly even those 
things in which she prides herself. But if folly fears some evil, she 
is burdened by it in the very moment of awaiting it, just as if it 
had actually come—already suffering in apprehension whatever 
she fears she may suffer.
  Just as in the body symptoms of latent ill-health precede the 
disease—there is, for example, a certain weak sluggishness,[16] a 
lassitude which is not the result of any work, a trembling, and a 
shivering that pervades the limbs—so the feeble spirit is shaken 
84    THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

by its ills a long time before it is overcome by them. It anticipates 
them, and totters before its time.
   But what is greater madness than to be tortured by the future 
and not to save your strength for the actual suffering, but to invite 
and bring on wretchedness? If you cannot be rid of it, you ought 
at least to postpone it.
   Will you not understand that no man should be tormented by 
the future? The man who has been told that he will have to endure 
torture fifty years from now is not disturbed thereby, unless he 
has leaped over the intervening years, and has projected himself 
into the trouble that is destined to arrive a generation later. In 
the same way, souls that enjoy being sick and that seize upon 
excuses for sorrow are saddened by events long past and effaced 
from the records. Past and future are both absent; we feel neither 
of them. But there can be no pain except as the result of what 
you feel. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. A doctrine often expressed in the letters; cf., for example, lxxi. 4.
  2. Cf. Horace, Carm. iii. 16. 28 magnas inter opes inops.
  3. For the same thought cf. Ep. iv. 7 Neminem eo fortuna provexit, ut 
   non tantum illi minaretur, quantum permiserat. Noli huic tranquillitati 
   confidere; momento mare evertitur. Eodem die ubi luserunt navigia, 
   sorbentur.
  4. i.e., engaged upon something else. Cf. Ep. i. 1.
  5. A distribution of coins, etc., at the public games. Food was also doled out 
   to the populace on similar occasions.
  6. This figure of the dole as applied to Fortune is sustained to an extent 
   which is unusual in Seneca.
  7. This phrase recalls the title of one of Seneca’s philosophical essays:De  
   Providentia, or Quare Bonis Viris Mala Accidant cum sit Providentia.
  8. Cf. Ep. lxxiii. § 14 Iuppiter uti illis non potest.
  9. Producta  is a translation of the Stoic term προηγμένα. For a clear 
   exposition of this topic see Cicero, De Fin. iii. 52 ff.
10. See Ep. lxvi. 6. The Stoics, unlike the Academics and the Peripatetics, 
   maintained that the good must have “an unconditional value” (Zeller).
11. Cf. Itane in geometriae pulvere haerebo?, Ep. lxxxviii. 39 and note.
12. See the argument in Ep. xii. 6 f., and often elsewhere.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     85

13. See § 23.
14. Called by the early Stoics ὁμολογία; the idea of “conformity with nature” 
   is a fundamental doctrine of the school. See Rackham on Cicero, De Fin. 
   iii. 21.
15. Cf. Epp. xi. 6 and lxxi. 29.
16. Perhaps a sort of malaria.
                    LETTER 75
          On the Diseases of the Soul
                        A

You have been complaining that my letters to you are rather care-
lessly written. Now who talks carefully unless he also desires to 
talk affectedly?[1] I prefer that my letters should be just what my 
conversation[2] would be if you and I were sitting in one another’s 
company or taking walks together, spontaneous and easy; for my 
letters have nothing strained or artificial about them. 
  If it were possible, I should prefer to show, rather than speak, 
my feelings. Even if I were arguing a point, I should not stamp 
my foot, or toss my arms about, or raise my voice; but I should 
leave that sort of thing to the orator, and should be content to have 
conveyed my feelings to you without having either embellished 
them or lowered their dignity.
  I should like to convince you entirely of this one fact—that I 
feel whatever I say, that I not only feel it, but am wedded to it. 
It is one sort of kiss which a man gives his mistress and another 
which he gives his children; yet in the father’s embrace also, holy 
and restrained as it is, plenty of affection is disclosed.
  I prefer, however, that our conversation on matters so impor-
tant should not be meagre and dry; for even philosophy does not 
renounce the company of cleverness. One should not, however, 
bestow very much attention upon mere words.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 87

  Let this be the kernel of my idea: let us say what we feel, and 
feel what we say; let speech harmonize with life.[3] That man has 
fulfilled his promise who is the same person both when you see 
him and when you hear him.
  We shall not fail to see what sort of man he is and how large a 
man he is, if only he is one and the same. Our words should aim 
not to please, but to help. If, however, you can attain eloquence 
without painstaking, and if you either are naturally gifted or can 
gain eloquence at slight cost, make the most of it and apply it to 
the noblest uses. But let it be of such a kind that it displays facts 
rather than itself. It and the other arts are wholly concerned with 
cleverness;[4] but our business here is the soul.
  A sick man does not call in a physician who is eloquent; but if 
it so happens that the physician who can cure him likewise dis-
courses elegantly about the treatment which is to be followed, the 
patient will take it in good part. For all that, he will not find any 
reason to congratulate himself on having discovered a physician 
who is eloquent. For the case is no different from that of a skilled 
pilot who is also handsome.
  Why do you tickle my ears? Why do you entertain me? There 
is other business at hand; I am to be cauterized, operated upon, 
or put on a diet. That is why you were summoned to treat me!
  You are required to cure a disease that is chronic and serious—
one which affects the general weal. You have as serious a business 
on hand as a physician has during a plague. Are you concerned 
about words? Rejoice this instant if you can cope with things. 
When shall you learn all that there is to learn? When shall you 
so plant in your mind that which you have learned, that it can-
not escape? When shall you put it all into practice? For it is not 
sufficient merely to commit these things to memory, like other 
matters; they must be practically tested. He is not happy who only 
knows them, but he who does them.
88  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  You reply: “What? Are there no degrees of happiness below 
your ‘happy’ man? Is there a sheer descent immediately below 
wisdom?” I think not. For though he who makes progress is still 
numbered with the fools, yet he is separated from them by a long 
interval. Among the very persons who are making progress there 
are also great spaces intervening. They fall into three classes,[5] as 
certain philosophers believe.
  First come those who have not yet attained wisdom but have 
already gained a place near by. Yet even that which is not far away 
is still outside. These, if you ask me, are men who have already laid 
aside all passions and vices, who have learned what things are to 
be embraced; but their assurance is not yet tested. They have not 
yet put their good into practice, yet from now on they cannot slip 
back into the faults which they have escaped. They have already 
arrived at a point from which there is no slipping back, but they 
are not yet aware of the fact; as I remember writing in another 
letter, “They are ignorant of their knowledge.”[6] It has now been 
vouchsafed to them to enjoy their good, but not yet to be sure of it.
  Some define this class, of which I have been speaking—a class 
of men who are making progress—as having escaped the diseases 
of the mind, but not yet the passions, and as still standing upon 
slippery ground; because no one is beyond the dangers of evil 
except him who has cleared himself of it wholly. But no one has 
so cleared himself except the man who has adopted wisdom in 
its stead.
  I have often before explained the difference between the dis-
eases of the mind and its passions. And I shall remind you once 
more: the diseases are hardened and chronic vices, such as greed 
and ambition; they have enfolded the mind in too close a grip, 
and have begun to be permanent evils thereof. To give a brief 
definition: by “disease” we mean a persistent perversion of the 
judgment, so that things which are mildly desirable are thought 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 89

to be highly desirable. Or, if you prefer, we may define it thus: to 
be too zealous in striving for things which are only mildly desir-
able or not desirable at all, or to value highly things which ought 
to be valued but slightly or valued not at all.
  “Passions” are objectionable impulses of the spirit, sudden and 
vehement; they have come so often, and so little attention has 
been paid to them, that they have caused a state of disease; just 
as a catarrh,[7] when there has been but a single attack and the 
catarrh has not yet become habitual, produces a cough, but causes 
consumption when it has become regular and chronic. Therefore 
we may say that those who have made most progress are beyond 
the reach of the “diseases”; but they still feel the “passions” even 
when very near perfection.
  The second class is composed of those who have laid aside 
both the greatest ills of the mind and its passions, but yet are not 
in assured possession of immunity.[8] For they can still slip back 
into their former state.
  The third class are beyond the reach of many of the vices and 
particularly of the great vices, but not beyond the reach of all. 
They have escaped avarice, for example, but still feel anger; they 
no longer are troubled by lust, but are still troubled by ambi-
tion; they no longer have desire, but they still have fear. And just 
because they fear, although they are strong enough to withstand 
certain things, there are certain things to which they yield; they 
scorn death, but are in terror of pain.
  Let us reflect a moment on this topic. It will be well with us 
if we are admitted to this class. The second stage is gained by 
great good fortune with regard to our natural gifts and by great 
and unceasing application to study. But not even the third type 
is to be despised. Think of the host of evils which you see about 
you; behold how there is no crime that is not exemplified, how 
far wickedness advances every day, and how prevalent are sins 
90  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

in home and commonwealth. You will see, therefore, that we are 
making a considerable gain, if we are not numbered among the 
basest.
  “But as for me,” you say, “I hope that it is in me to rise to a 
higher rank than that!” I should pray, rather than promise, that 
we may attain this; we have been forestalled. We hasten towards 
virtue while hampered by vices. I am ashamed to say it; but we 
worship that which is honourable only in so far as we have time 
to spare.[9] But what a rich reward awaits us if only we break off 
the affairs which forestall us and the evils that cling to us with 
utter tenacity!
  Then neither desire nor fear shall rout us. Undisturbed by fears, 
unspoiled by pleasures, we shall be afraid neither of death nor of 
the gods; we shall know that death is no evil and that the gods are 
not powers of evil. That which harms has no greater power than 
that which receives harm, and things which are utterly good have 
no power at all to harm.[10]
  There await us, if ever we escape from these low dregs to that 
sublime and lofty height, peace of mind and, when all error has 
been driven out, perfect liberty. You ask what this freedom is? 
It means not fearing either men or gods; it means not craving 
wickedness or excess; it means possessing supreme power over 
oneself And it is a priceless good to be master of oneself. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. For putidum (that which offends the taste, i.e., is too artificially formal) 
  see Cic. De Orat. iii. 41 nolo exprimi litteras putidius, nolo obscurari 
  neglegentius.
  2. Cf. Ep. lxvii. 2 si quando intervenerunt epistulae tuae, tecum esse mihi 
  videor, etc.
  3. Cf. Ep. cxiv. 1 talis hominibus fuit oratio qualis vita, and passim in Epp. xl., 
  lxxv. and cxiv.
  4. Eloquence and other arts please mainly by their cleverness; nor does 
  philosophy abjure such cleverness as style; but here in these letters, 
  wherein we are discussing the soul, the graces of speech are of no concern.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     91

  5. Chrysippus, however, recognised only the first two classes, as did 
   Epictetus (iv. 2).
  6. Ep. lxxi. 4.
  7. For Seneca’s own struggles with this disease cf. Ep. lxxviii. 1.
  8. The difference between the first and second classes is well described 
   in Ep. lxxii. 6 hoc interest inter consummatae sapientiae virum et alium 
   procedentis, quod inter sanum et ex morbo gravi ac diutino emergentem.
  9. This idea is a favourite with Seneca; cf. Ep. liii. 8non  est quod precario 
   philosopheris, and § 9 (philosophia) non est res subsiciva, “an occupation 
   for one’s spare time.”
10. Therefore death has no power to harm, since man is not harmed thereby, 
   and the gods, who are utterly good, cannot be the source of evil.
         Japanese: Wa. 
   English: Peace or harmony. 
It can also refer to Japan or Japanese, 
 as in wagyu beef, which is literally 
    wa- (Japanese) -gyu (beef).

     Calligrapher: Noriko Lake
                   LETTER 76
       On Learning Wisdom in Old Age
                       A

You have been threatening me with your enmity, if I do not keep 
you informed about all my daily actions. But see, now, upon what 
frank terms you and I live: for I shall confide even the following 
fact to your ears. I have been hearing the lectures of a philosopher; 
four days have already passed since I have been attending his 
school and listening to the harangue, which begins at two o’clock. 
“A fine time of life for that!” you say. Yes, fine indeed! Now what 
is more foolish than refusing to learn, simply because one has not 
been learning for a long time?
  “What do you mean? Must I follow the fashion set by the fops[1] 
and youngsters?” But I am pretty well off if this is the only thing 
that discredits my declining years. Men of all ages are admitted to 
this class-room. You retort: “Do we grow old merely in order to 
tag after the youngsters?” But if I, an old man, go to the theatre, 
and am carried to the races, and allow no duel in the arena to be 
fought to a finish without my presence, shall I blush to attend a 
philosopher’s lecture?
  You should keep learning as long as you are ignorant—even to 
the end of your life, if there is anything in the proverb. And the 
proverb suits the present case as well as any: “As long as you live, 
keep learning how to live.” For all that, there is also something 
94  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

which I can teach in that school. You ask, do you, what I can 
teach? That even an old man should keep learning.
  But I am ashamed of mankind, as often as I enter the lecture-
hall. On my way to the house of Metronax[2] I am compelled to 
go, as you know, right past the Neapolitan Theatre. The build-
ing is jammed; men are deciding, with tremendous zeal, who 
is entitled to be called a good flute-player; even the Greek piper 
and the herald draw their crowds. But in the other place, where 
the question discussed is: “What is a good man?” and the lesson 
which we learn is “How to be a good man,” very few are in atten-
dance, and the majority think that even these few are engaged in 
no good business; they have the name of being empty-headed 
idler. I hope I may be blessed with that kind of mockery; for one 
should listen in an unruffled spirit to the railings of the ignorant; 
when one is marching toward the goal of honour, one should 
scorn scorn itself.
  Proceed, then, Lucilius, and hasten, lest you yourself be com-
pelled to learn in your old age, as is the case with me. Nay, you 
must hasten all the more, because for a long time you have not 
approached the subject, which is one that you can scarcely learn 
thoroughly when you are old. “How much progress shall I make?” 
you ask. Just as much as you try to make.
  Why do you wait? Wisdom comes haphazard to no man. 
Money will come of its own accord; titles will be given to you; 
influence and authority will perhaps be thrust upon you; but vir-
tue will not fall upon you by chance. Either is knowledge thereof 
to be won by light effort or small toil; but toiling is worth while 
when one is about to win all goods at a single stroke.
  For there is but a single good—namely, that which is hon-
ourable; in all those other things of which the general opinion 
approves, you will find no truth or certainty. Why it is, however, 
that there is but one good, namely, that which is honourable, I 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 95

shall now tell you, inasmuch as you judge that in my earlier let-
ter[3] I did not carry the discussion far enough, and think that 
this theory was commended to you rather than proved. I shall 
also compress the remarks of other authors into narrow compass.
  Everything is estimated by the standard of its own good. The 
vine is valued for its productiveness and the flavour of its wine, the 
stag for his speed. We ask, with regard to beasts of burden, how 
sturdy of back they are; for their only use is to bear burdens. If a 
dog is to find the trail of a wild beast, keenness of scent is of first 
importance; if to catch his quarry, swiftness of foot; if to attack 
and harry it, courage. In each thing that quality should be best for 
which the thing is brought into being and by which it is judged. 
  And what quality is best in man? It is reason; by virtue of rea-
son he surpasses the animals, and is surpassed only by the gods. 
Perfect reason is therefore the good peculiar to man; all other 
qualities he shares in some degree with animals and plants. Man 
is strong; so is the lion. Man is comely; so is the peacock. Man 
is swift; so is the horse. I do not say that man is surpassed in all 
these qualities. I am not seeking to find that which is greatest in 
him, but that which is peculiarly his own. Man has body; so also 
have trees. Man has the power to act and to move at will; so have 
beasts and worms. Man has a voice; but how much louder is the 
voice of the dog, how much shriller that of the eagle, how much 
deeper that of the bull, how much sweeter and more melodious 
that of the nightingale!
  What then is peculiar to man? Reason. When this is right and 
has reached perfection, man’s felicity is complete. Hence, if every-
thing is praiseworthy and has arrived at the end intended by its 
nature, when it has brought its peculiar good to perfection, and 
if man’s peculiar good is reason; then, if a man has brought his 
reason to perfection, he is praiseworthy and has readied the end 
96  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

suited to his nature. This perfect reason is called virtue, and is 
likewise that which is honourable.
  Hence that in man is alone a good which alone belongs to man. 
For we are not now seeking to discover what is a good, but what 
good is man’s. And if there is no other attribute which belongs 
peculiarly to man except reason, then reason will be his one pecu-
liar good, but a good that is worth all the rest put together. If any 
man is bad, he will, I suppose, be regarded with disapproval; if 
good, I suppose he will be regarded with approval. Therefore, 
that attribute of man whereby he is approved or disapproved is 
his chief and only good.
  You do not doubt whether this is a good; you merely doubt 
whether it is the sole good. If a man possess all other things, 
such as health, riches, pedigree,[4] a crowded reception-hall, but 
is confessedly bad, you will disapprove of him. Likewise, if a man 
possess none of the things which I have mentioned, and lacks 
money, or an escort of clients, or rank and a line of grandfathers 
and great-grandfathers, but is confessedly good, you will approve 
of him. Hence, this is man’s one peculiar good, and the possessor 
of it is to be praised even if he lacks other things; but he who does 
not possess it, though he possess everything else in abundance is 
condemned and rejected.
  The same thing holds good regarding men as regarding things. 
A ship is said to be good not when it is decorated with costly 
colours, nor when its prow is covered with silver or gold or its 
figure-head[5] embossed in ivory, nor when it is laden with the 
imperial revenues[6] or with the wealth of kings, but when it is 
steady and staunch and taut, with seams that keep out the water, 
stout enough to endure the buffeting of the waves’ obedient to its 
helm, swift and caring naught for the winds.
  You will speak of a sword as good, not when its sword-belt is of 
gold, or its scabbard studded with gems, but when its edge is fine 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 97

for cutting and its point will pierce any armour. Take the carpen-
ter’s rule: we do not ask how beautiful it is, but how straight it is. 
Each thing is praised in regard to that attribute which is taken as 
its standard, in regard to that which is its peculiar quality.
  Therefore in the case of man also, it is not pertinent to the ques-
tion to know how many acres he ploughs, how much money he 
has out at interest, how many callers attend his receptions, how 
costly is the couch on which he lies, how transparent are the cups 
from which he drinks, but how good he is. He is good, however, 
if his reason is well-ordered and right and adapted to that which 
his nature has willed.
  It is this that is called virtue; this is what we mean by “honour-
able”;[7] it is man’s unique good. For since reason alone brings man 
to perfection, reason alone, when perfected, makes man happy. 
This, moreover, is man’s only good, the only means by which he is 
made happy. We do indeed say that those things also[8] are goods 
which are furthered and brought together by virtue—that is, all 
the works of virtue; but virtue itself is for this reason the only 
good, because there is no good without virtue.
  If every good is in the soul, then whatever strengthens, uplifts, 
and enlarges the soul, is a good; virtue, however, does make the 
soul stronger, loftier, and larger. For all other things, which arouse 
our desires, depress the soul and weaken it, and when we think 
that they are uplifting the soul, they are merely puffing it up and 
cheating it with much emptiness. Therefore, that alone is good 
which will make the soul better.
  All the actions of life, taken as a whole, are controlled by the 
consideration of what is honourable or base; it is with reference 
to these two things that our reason is governed in doing or not 
doing a particular thing. I shall explain what I mean: A good man 
will do what he thinks it will be honourable for him to do, even 
if it involves toil; he will do it even if it involves harm to him; he 
98  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

will do it even if it involves peril; again, he will not do that which 
will be base, even if it brings him money, or pleasure, or power. 
Nothing will deter him from that which is honourable, and noth-
ing will tempt him into baseness.
  Therefore, if he is determined invariably to follow that which is 
honourable, invariably to avoid baseness, and in every act of his 
life to have regard for these two things, deeming nothing else good 
except that which is honourable, and nothing else bad except that 
which is base; if virtue alone is unperverted in him and by itself 
keeps its even course, then virtue is that man’s only good, and 
nothing can thenceforth happen to it which may make it anything 
else than good. It has escaped all risk of change; folly may creep 
upwards towards wisdom, but wisdom never slips back into folly.
  You may perhaps remember my saying[9] that the things which 
have been generally desired and feared have been trampled down 
by many a man in moments of sudden passion. There have been 
found men who would place their hands in the flames, men whose 
smiles could not be stopped by the torturer, men who would shed 
not a tear at the funeral of their children, men who would meet 
death unflinchingly. It is love, for example, anger, lust, which have 
challenged dangers. If a momentary stubbornness can accomplish 
all this when roused by some goad that pricks the spirit, how 
much more can be accomplished by virtue, which does not act 
impulsively or suddenly, but uniformly and with a strength that 
is lasting!
  It follows that the things which are often scorned by the men 
who are moved with a sudden passion, and are always scorned 
by the wise, are neither goods nor evils. Virtue itself is therefore 
the only good; she marches proudly between the two extremes 
of fortune, with great scorn for both.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 99

  If, however, you accept the view that there is anything good 
besides that which is honourable, all the virtues will suffer. For it 
will never be possible for any virtue to be won and held, if there is 
anything outside itself which virtue must take into consideration. 
If there is any such thing, then it is at variance with reason, from 
which the virtues spring, and with truth also, which cannot exist 
without reason. Any opinion, however, which is at variance with 
truth, is wrong.
  A good man, you will admit, must have the highest sense of 
duty toward the gods. Hence he will endure with an unruffled 
spirit whatever happens to him; for he will know that it has hap-
pened as a result of the divine law, by which the whole creation 
moves. This being so, there will be for him one good, and only 
one, namely, that which is honourable; for one of its dictates is 
that we shall obey the gods and not blaze forth in anger at sudden 
misfortunes or deplore our lot, but rather patiently accept fate 
and obey its commands.
  If anything except the honourable is good, we shall be hounded 
by greed for life, and by greed for the things which provide life 
with its furnishings—an intolerable state, subject to no limits, 
unstable. The only good, therefore, is that which is honourable, 
that which is subject to bounds.
  I have declared[10] that man’s life would be more blest than 
that of the gods, if those things which the gods do not enjoy are 
goods—such as money and offices of dignity. There is this further 
consideration: if only it is true that our souls, when released from 
the body, still abide, a happier condition is in store for them than 
is theirs while they dwell in the body. And yet, if those things are 
goods which we make use of for our bodies’ sake, our souls will 
be worse off when set free; and that is contrary to our belief, to 
say that the soul is happier when it is cabined and confined than 
when it is free and has betaken itself to the universe.
100 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  I also said[11] that if those things which dumb animals possess 
equally with man are goods, then dumb animals also will lead a 
happy life; which is of course impossible. One must endure all 
things in defence of that which is honourable; but this would not 
be necessary if there existed any other good besides that which 
is honourable.
  Although this question was discussed by me pretty extensively 
in a previous letter,[12] I have discussed it summarily and briefly 
run through the argument.
  But an opinion of this kind will never seem true to you unless 
you exalt your mind and ask yourself whether, at the call of duty, 
you would be willing to die for your country, and buy the safety 
of all your fellow-citizens at the price of your own; whether you 
would offer your neck not only with patience, but also with glad-
ness. If you would do this, there is no other good in your eyes. 
For you are giving up everything in order to acquire this good. 
Consider how great is the power of that which is honourable: you 
will die for your country, even at a moment’s notice, when you 
know that you ought to do so.
  Sometimes, as a result of noble conduct, one wins great joy even 
in a very short and fleeting space of time; and though none of the 
fruits of a deed that has been done will accrue to the doer after 
he is dead and removed from the sphere of human affairs, yet the 
mere contemplation of a deed that is to be done is a delight, and 
the brave and upright man, picturing to himself the guerdons of 
his death—guerdons such as the freedom of his country and the 
deliverance of all those for whom he is paying out his life—par-
takes of the greatest pleasure and enjoys the fruit of his own peril.
  But that man also who is deprived of this joy, the joy which 
is afforded by the contemplation of some last noble effort, will 
leap to his death without a moment’s hesitation, content to act 
rightly and dutifully. Moreover, you may confront him with many 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 101

discouragements; you may say: “Your deed will speedily be for-
gotten,” or “Your fellow-citizens will offer you scant thanks.” He 
will answer: “All these matters lie outside my task. My thoughts 
are on the deed itself. I know that this is honourable. Therefore, 
whithersoever I am led and summoned by honour, I will go.”
  This, therefore, is the only good, and not only is every soul 
that has reached perfection aware of it, but also every soul that is 
by nature noble and of right instincts; all other goods are trivial 
and mutable. For this reason we are harassed if we possess them. 
Even though, by the kindness of Fortune, they have been heaped 
together, they weigh heavily upon their owners, always pressing 
them down and sometimes crushing them.
  None of those whom you behold clad in purple is happy, any 
more than one of these actors[13] upon whom the play bestows a 
sceptre and a cloak while on the stage; they strut their hour before 
a crowded house, with swelling port and buskined foot; but when 
once they make their exit the foot-gear is removed and they return 
to their proper stature. None of those who have been raised to 
a loftier height by riches and honours is really great. Why then 
does he seem great to you? It is because you are measuring the 
pedestal along with the man. A dwarf is not tall, though he stand 
upon a mountain-top; a colossal statue will still be tall, though 
you place it in a well.
  This is the error under which we labour; this is the reason why 
we are imposed upon: we value no man at what he is, but add to 
the man himself the trappings in which he is clothed. But when 
you wish to inquire into a man’s true worth, and to know what 
manner of man he is, look at him when he is naked; make him 
lay aside his inherited estate, his titles, and the other deceptions 
of fortune; let him even strip off his body. Consider his soul, its 
quality and its stature, and thus learn whether its greatness is 
borrowed, or its own.
102 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  If a man can behold with unflinching eyes the flash of a sword, if 
he knows that it makes no difference to him whether his soul takes 
flight through his mouth or through a wound in his throat,[14] you 
may call him happy; you may also call him happy if, when he is 
threatened with bodily torture, whether it be the result of accident 
or of the might of the stronger, he can without concern hear talk 
of chains, or of exile, or of all the idle fears that stir men’s minds, 
and can say:

     “O maiden, no new sudden form of toil

     Springs up before my eyes; within my soul
     I have forestalled and surveyed everything.[15]

  Today it is you who threaten me with these terrors; but I have 
always threatened myself with them, and have prepared myself 
as a man to meet man’s destiny.”
  If an evil has been pondered beforehand, the blow is gentle 
when it comes. To the fool, however, and to him who trusts in 
fortune, each event as it arrives “comes in a new and sudden 
form,” and a large part of evil, to the inexperienced, consists in its 
novelty. This is proved by the fact that men endure with greater 
courage, when they have once become accustomed to them, the 
things which they had at first regarded as hardships.
  Hence, the wise man accustoms himself to coming trouble, 
lightening by long reflection the evils which others lighten by long 
endurance. We sometimes hear the inexperienced say: “I knew 
that this was in store for me.” But the wise man knows that all 
things are in store for him. Whatever happens, he says: “I knew 
it.” Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. A mock-heroic nickname for the knights, derived from the town of 
  Trossulum in Etruria, which they captured by a sensational charge. See 
  Persius, i. 82, and Seneca, Ep. lxxxvii. 9.
  2. See also Ep. xciii.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    103

  3. Ep. lxxiv.
  4. Literally “many masks” of his ancestors. These were placed in theatrium. 
  5. Literally “the guardian deity”; cf. Horace, Od. i. 14. 10. These were images 
   of the gods, carried and invoked by the ancients, in the same manner as 
   St. Nicholas today.
  6. The fiscus was the private treasury of the Roman Emperor, as contrasted 
   with the aerarium, which theoretically was controlled by the Senate.
  7. i.e., “moral worth.”
  8. i.e., peace, the welfare of one’s country, dutiful children, etc.
  9. Cf. Ep. lxxiv. 21.
10. Cf. Ep. lxxiv. 14 aut ista bona non sunt, quae vocantur, aut homo felicior 
   deo est, quoniam quidem quae parata nobis sunt, non habet in usu deus.
11. eg., Ep. lxxiv. 16 summum bonum . . . obsolescit, si ab optima nostri parte 
   ad pessimam transit et transfertur ad sensus, qui agiliores sunt animalibus 
   mutis.
12. Ep. lxxiv., esp § 14.
13. Compare the argument in Ep. lxxx. § 7, “This farce of living, in which we 
   act our parts so ill”; § 8, the loudmouthed impersonator of heroes, who 
   sleeps on rags; and § 9 hominem involutum aestimas?
14. As the world-soul is spread through the universe, so the human soul (as 
   fire, or breath) is diffused through the body, and may take its departure in 
   various ways.
15. Vergil, Aeneid, vi. 103 ff. (The answer of Aeneas to the Sibyl’s prophecy.)
                    LETTER 77
           On Taking One’s Own Life
                        A

Suddenly there came into our view today the “Alexandrian” 
ships—I mean those which are usually sent ahead to announce 
the coming of the fleet; they are called “mail-boats.” The Campan-
ians are glad to see them; all the rabble of Puteoli[1] stand on the 
docks, and can recognize the “Alexandrian” boats, no matter how 
great the crowd of vessels, by the very trim of their sails. For they 
alone may keep spread their topsails, which all ships use when 
out at sea, because nothing sends a ship along so well as its upper 
canvas; that is where most of the speed is obtained. So when the 
breeze has stiffened and becomes stronger than is comfortable, 
they set their yards lower; for the wind has less force near the 
surface of the water. Accordingly, when they have made Capreae 
and the headland whence

     Tall Pallas watches on the stormy peak,[2]

all other vessels are bidden to be content with the mainsail, and the 
topsail stands out conspicuously on the “Alexandrian” mail-boats.
  While everybody was bustling about and hurrying to the water-
front, I felt great pleasure in my laziness, because, although I was 
soon to receive letters from my friends, I was in no hurry to know 
how my affairs were progressing abroad, or what news the letters 
were bringing; for some time now I have had no losses, nor gains 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 105

either. Even if I were not an old man, I could not have helped 
feeling pleasure at this; but as it is, my pleasure was far greater. 
For, however small my possessions might be, I should still have 
left over more travelling-money than journey to travel, especially 
since this journey upon which we have set out is one which need 
not be followed to the end.
  An expedition will be incomplete if one stops half-way, or any-
where on this side of one’s destination; but life is not incomplete if 
it is honourable. At whatever point you leave off living, provided 
you leave off nobly, your life is a whole.[3] Often, however, one 
must leave off bravely, and our reasons therefore need not be 
momentous; for neither are the reasons momentous which hold 
us here.
  Tullius Marcellinus,[4] a man whom you knew very well, who 
in youth was a quiet soul and became old prematurely, fell ill of a 
disease which was by no means hopeless; but it was protracted and 
troublesome, and it demanded much attention; hence he began to 
think about dying. He called many of his friends together. Each 
one of them gave Marcellinus advice—the timid friend urging 
him to do what he had made up his mind to do; the flattering 
and wheedling friend giving counsel which he supposed would 
be more pleasing to Marcellinus when he came to think the mat-
ter over; but our Stoic friend, a rare man, and, to praise him 
in language which he deserves, a man of courage and vigour[5] 
admonished him best of all, as it seems to me. For he began as 
follows: “Do not torment yourself, my dear Marcellinus, as if the 
question which you are weighing were a matter of importance. It 
is not an important matter to live; all your slaves live, and so do 
all animals; but it is important to die honourably, sensibly, bravely. 
Reflect how long you have been doing the same thing: food, sleep, 
lust—this is one’s daily round. The desire to die may be felt, not 
106 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

only by the sensible man or the brave or unhappy man, but even 
by the man who is merely surfeited.”
  Marcellinus did not need someone to urge him, but rather 
someone to help him; his slaves refused to do his bidding. The 
Stoic therefore removed their fears, showing them that there was 
no risk involved for the household except when it was uncertain 
whether the master’s death was self-sought or not; besides, it was 
as bad a practice to kill one’s master as it was to prevent him forc-
ibly from killing himself.
  Then he suggested to Marcellinus himself that it would be 
a kindly act to distribute gifts to those who had attended him 
throughout his whole life, when that life was finished, just as, 
when a banquet is finished,[6] the remaining portion is divided 
among the attendants who stand about the table. Marcellinus was 
of a compliant and generous disposition, even when it was a ques-
tion of his own property; so he distributed little sums among his 
sorrowing slaves, and comforted them besides.
  No need had he of sword or of bloodshed; for three days he 
fasted and had a tent put up in his very bedroom.[7] Then a tub 
was brought in; he lay in it for a long time, and, as the hot water 
was continually poured over him, he gradually passed away, not 
without a feeling of pleasure, as he himself remarked—such a 
feeling as a slow dissolution is wont to give. Those of us who have 
ever fainted know from experience what this feeling is.
  This little anecdote into which I have digressed will not be 
displeasing to you. For you will see that your friend departed 
neither with difficulty nor with suffering. Though he commit-
ted suicide, yet he withdrew most gently, gliding out of life. The 
anecdote may also be of some use; for often a crisis demands just 
such examples. There are times when we ought to die and are 
unwilling; sometimes we die and are unwilling.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 107

  No one is so ignorant as not to know that we must at some time 
die; nevertheless, when one draws near death, one turns to flight, 
trembles, and laments. Would you not think him an utter fool who 
wept because he was not alive a thousand years ago? And is he 
not just as much of a fool who weeps because he will not be alive 
a thousand years from now? It is all the same; you will not be, and 
you were not. Neither of these periods of time belongs to you.
  You have been cast upon this point of time;[8] if you would make 
it longer, how much longer shall you make it? Why weep? Why 
pray? You are taking pains to no purpose.

     Give over thinking that your prayers can bend

     Divine decrees from their predestined end.[9]

  These decrees are unalterable and fixed; they are governed by 
a mighty and everlasting compulsion. Your goal will be the goal 
of all things. What is there strange in this to you? You were born 
to be subject to this law; this fate befell your father, your mother, 
your ancestors, all who came before you; and it will befall all 
who shall come after you. A sequence which cannot be broken 
or altered by any power binds all things together and draws all 
things in its course.
  Think of the multitudes of men doomed to death who will 
come after you, of the multitudes who will go with you! You would 
die more bravely, I suppose, in the company of many thousands; 
and yet there are many thousands, both of men and of animals, 
who at this very moment, while you are irresolute about death, 
are breathing their last, in their several ways. But you—did you 
believe that you would not some day reach the goal towards which 
you have always been travelling? No journey but has its end.
  You think, I suppose, that it is now in order for me to cite some 
examples of great men. No, I shall cite rather the case of a boy. The 
story of the Spartan lad has been preserved: taken captive while 
108 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

still a stripling, he kept crying in his Doric dialect, “I will not be 
a slave!” and he made good his word; for the very first time he 
was ordered to perform a menial and degrading service—and the 
command was to fetch a chamber-pot—he dashed out his brains 
against the wall.[10]
  So near at hand is freedom, and is anyone still a slave? Would 
you not rather have your own son die thus than reach old age by 
weakly yielding? Why therefore are you distressed, when even a 
boy can die so bravely? Suppose that you refuse to follow him; you 
will be led. Take into your own control that which is now under 
the control of another. Will you not borrow that boy’s courage, 
and say: “I am no slave!”? Unhappy fellow, you are a slave to men, 
you are a slave to your business, you are a slave to life. For life, if 
courage to die be lacking, is slavery.
  Have you anything worth waiting for? Your very pleasures, 
which cause you to tarry and hold you back, have already been 
exhausted by you. None of them is a novelty to you, and there is 
none that has not already become hateful because you are cloyed 
with it. You know the taste of wine and cordials. It makes no 
difference whether a hundred or a thousand measures[11] pass 
through your bladder; you are nothing but a wine-strainer.[12] You 
are a connoisseur in the flavour of the oyster and of the mullet;[13] 
your luxury has not left you anything untasted for the years that 
are to come; and yet these are the things from which you are torn 
away unwillingly.
  What else is there which you would regret to have taken from 
you? Friends? But who can be a friend to you? Country? What? 
Do you think enough of your country to be late to dinner? The 
light of the sun? You would extinguish it, if you could; for what 
have you ever done that was fit to be seen in the light? Confess 
the truth; it is not because you long for the senate chamber or the 
forum, or even for the world of nature, that you would fain put off 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 109

dying; it is because you are loth to leave the fish-market, though 
you have exhausted its stores.[14]
  You are afraid of death; but how can you scorn it in the midst 
of a mushroom supper?[15] You wish to live; well, do you know 
how to live? You are afraid to die. But come now: is this life of 
yours anything but death? Gaius Caesar was passing along the Via 
Latina, when a man stepped out from the ranks of the prisoners, 
his grey beard hanging down even to his breast, and begged to 
be put to death. “What!” said Caesar, “are you alive now?” That is 
the answer which should be given to men to whom death would 
come as a relief. “You are afraid to die; what! are you alive now?”
  “But,” says one, “I wish to live, for I am engaged in many hon-
ourable pursuits. I am loth to leave life’s duties, which I am ful-
filling with loyalty and zeal.” Surely you are aware that dying is 
also one of life’s duties? You are deserting no duty; for there is no 
definite number established which you are bound to complete.
  There is no life that is not short. Compared with the world of 
nature, even Nestor’s life was a short one, or Sattia’s,[16] the woman 
who bade carve on her tombstone that she had lived ninety and 
nine years. Some persons, you see, boast of their long lives; but 
who could have endured the old lady if she had had the luck to 
complete her hundredth year? It is with life as it is with a play—it 
matters not how long the action is spun out, but how good the 
acting is. It makes no difference at what point you stop. Stop 
whenever you choose; only see to it that the closing period is well 
turned.[17] Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Puteoli, in the bay of Naples, was the head-quarters in Italy of the 
  important grain-trade with Egypt, on which the Roman magistrates relied 
  to feed the populace.
  2. Author unknown.
  3. This thought, found in Ep. xii. 6 and often elsewhere, is a favourite with 
  Seneca.
110   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  4. It is not likely that this Marcellinus is the same person as the Marcellinus 
   Ep. xxix., because of their different views on philosophy (Summers). But 
   there is no definite evidence for or against.
  5. A Roman compliment; the Greeks would have used καλὸς κἀγαθός; cf. 
   Horace, Ep. i. 7. 46
      Strenuus et fortis causisque Philippus agendis 
      Clarus.
  6. For this frequent “banquet of life” simile see Ep. xcviii. 15 ipse vitae plenus 
   est, etc.
  7. So that the steam might not escape. One thinks of Seneca’s last hours: Tac. 
   Ann. xv. 64 stagnum calidae aquae introiit . . . exin balneo inlatus et vapore 
   eius exanimatus.
  8. For the same thought cf. Ep. xlix. 3 punctum est quod vivimus et adhuc 
   puncto minus.
  9. Vergil, Aeneid, vi. 376.
10. See Plutarch, Mor. 234 b, for a similar act of the Spartan boy captured by 
   King Antigonus. Hense (Rhein. Mus. xlvii. pp. 220 f.) thinks that this story 
   may be taken from Bion, the third-century satirist and moral philosopher.
11. About 5¾ gallons.
12. Cf. Pliny, xiv. 22 quin immo ut plus capiamus, sacco frangimus vires. 
   Strained wine could be drunk in greater quantities without intoxication.
13. Cf. Dio Cassius, xl. 54, for the exiled Milo’s enjoyment of the mullets of 
   Marseilles.
14. Probably the strong tone of disapproval used in this paragraph is directed 
   against the Roman in general rather than against the industrious Lucilius. 
   It is characteristic of the diatribe.
15. Seneca may be recalling the death of the Emperor Claudius.
16. A traditional example of old age, mentioned by Martial and the elder 
   Pliny.
17. Compare the last words of the Emperor Augustus: amicos percontatus 
   ecquid iis videretur mimum vitae commode transegisse (Suet. Aug. 99).
                   LETTER 78
      On the Healing Power of the Mind
                       A

That you are frequently troubled by the snuffling of catarrh and 
by short attacks of fever which follow after long and chronic 
catarrhal seizures, I am sorry to hear; particularly because I have 
experienced this sort of illness myself, and scorned it in its early 
stages. For when I was still young, I could put up with hardships 
and show a bold front to illness. But I finally succumbed, and 
arrived at such a state that I could do nothing but snuffle, reduced 
as I was to the extremity of thinness.[1]
  I often entertained the impulse of ending my life then and 
there; but the thought of my kind old father kept me back. For I 
reflected, not how bravely I had the power to die, but how little 
power he had to bear bravely the loss of me. And so I commanded 
myself to live. For sometimes it is an act of bravery even to live.
  Now I shall tell you what consoled me during those days, stat-
ing at the outset that these very aids to my peace of mind were as 
efficacious as medicine. Honourable consolation results in a cure; 
and whatever has uplifted the soul helps the body also. My stud-
ies were my salvation. I place it to the credit of philosophy that I 
recovered and regained my strength. I owe my life to philosophy, 
and that is the least of my obligations!
  My friends, too, helped me greatly toward good health; I used 
to be comforted by their cheering words, by the hours they spent 
112 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

at my bedside, and by their conversation. Nothing, my excellent 
Lucilius, refreshes and aids a sick man so much as the affection of 
his friends; nothing so steals away the expectation and the fear of 
death. In fact, I could not believe that, if they survived me, I should 
be dying at all. Yes, I repeat, it seemed to me that I should continue 
to live, not with them, but through them. I imagined myself not to 
be yielding up my soul, but to be making it over to them.
  All these things gave me the inclination to succour myself and 
to endure any torture; besides, it is a most miserable state to have 
lost one’s zest for dying, and to have no zest in living.
  These, then, are the remedies to which you should have recourse. 
The physician will prescribe your walks and your exercise; he will 
warn you not to become addicted to idleness, as is the tendency 
of the inactive invalid; he will order you to read in a louder voice 
and to exercise your lungs[2] the passages and cavity of which are 
affected; or to sail and shake up your bowels by a little mild motion; 
he will recommend the proper food, and the suitable time for aiding 
your strength with wine or refraining from it in order to keep your 
cough from being irritated and hacking. But as for me, my counsel 
to you is this—and it is a cure, not merely of this disease of yours, 
but of your whole life—“Despise death.” There is no sorrow in the 
world, when we have escaped from the fear of death.
  There are these three serious elements in every disease: fear 
of death, bodily pain, and interruption of pleasures. Concerning 
death enough has been said, and I shall add only a word: this 
fear is not a fear of disease, but a fear of nature. Disease has often 
postponed death, and a vision of dying has been many a man’s 
salvation.[3] You will die, not because you are ill, but because you 
are alive; even when you have been cured, the same end awaits 
you; when you have recovered, it will be not death, but ill-health, 
that you have escaped.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 113

  Let us now return to the consideration of the characteristic 
disadvantage of disease: it is accompanied by great suffering. The 
suffering, however, is rendered endurable by interruptions; for the 
strain of extreme pain must come to an end.[4] No man can suf-
fer both severely and for a long time; Nature, who loves us most 
tenderly, has so constituted us as to make pain either endurable 
or short.[5]
  The severest pains have their seat in the most slender parts of 
our body; nerves, joints, and any other of the narrow passages, 
hurt most cruelly when they have developed trouble within their 
contracted spaces. But these parts soon become numb, and by rea-
son of the pain itself lose the sensation of pain, whether because 
the life-force, when checked in its natural course and changed for 
the worse, loses the peculiar power through which it thrives and 
through which it warns us, or because the diseased humours of 
the body, when they cease to have a place into which they may 
flow, are thrown back upon themselves, and deprive of sensation 
the parts where they have caused congestion.
  So gout, both in the feet and in the hands, and all pain in the 
vertebrae and in the nerves, have their intervals of rest at the times 
when they have dulled the parts which they before had tortured; 
the first twinges,[6] in all such cases, are what cause the distress, 
and their onset is checked by lapse of time, so that there is an end 
of pain when numbness has set in. Pain in the teeth, eyes, and ears 
is most acute for the very reason that it begins among the narrow 
spaces of the body—no less acute, indeed, than in the head itself. 
But if it is more violent than usual, it turns to delirium and stupor.
  This is, accordingly, a consolation for excessive pain—that you 
cannot help ceasing to feel it if you feel it to excess. The reason, 
however, why the inexperienced are impatient when their bodies 
suffer is, that they have not accustomed themselves to be con-
tented in spirit. They have been closely associated with the body. 
114 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

Therefore a high-minded and sensible man divorces soul from 
body, and dwells much with the better or divine part, and only as 
far as he must with this complaining and frail portion.
  “But it is a hardship,” men say, “to do without our customary 
pleasures—to fast, to feel thirst and hunger.” These are indeed 
serious when one first abstains from them. Later the desire dies 
down, because the appetites themselves which lead to desire are 
wearied and forsake us; then the stomach becomes petulant, then 
the food which we craved before becomes hateful. Our very wants 
die away. But there is no bitterness in doing without that which 
you have ceased to desire.
  Moreover, every pain sometimes stops, or at any rate slackens; 
moreover, one may take precautions against its return, and, when 
it threatens, may check it by means of remedies. Every variety of 
pain has its premonitory symptoms; this is true, at any rate, of pain 
that is habitual and recurrent. One can endure the suffering which 
disease entails, if one has come to regard its results with scorn.
  But do not of your own accord make your troubles heavier to 
bear and burden yourself with complaining. Pain is slight if opin-
ion has added nothing to it; but if, on the other hand, you begin 
to encourage yourself and say, “It is nothing—a trifling matter at 
most; keep a stout heart and it will soon cease”; then in thinking 
it slight, you will make it slight. Everything depends on opinion; 
ambition, luxury, greed, hark back to opinion. It is according to 
opinion that we suffer.
  A man is as wretched as he has convinced himself that he is. 
I hold that we should do away with complaint about past suffer-
ings and with all language like this: “None has ever been worse 
off than I. What sufferings, what evils have I endured! No one has 
thought that I shall recover. How often have my family bewailed 
me, and the physicians given me over! Men who are placed on the 
rack are not torn asunder with such agony!” However, even if all 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 115

this is true, it is over and gone. What benefit is there in review-
ing past sufferings, and in being unhappy, just because once you 
were unhappy? Besides, every one adds much to his own ills, and 
tells lies to himself. And that which was bitter to bear is pleasant 
to have borne; it is natural to rejoice at the ending of one’s ills.
  Two elements must therefore be rooted out once for all—the fear 
of future suffering, and the recollection of past suffering; since the 
latter no longer concerns me, and the former concerns me not yet.
  But when set in the very midst of troubles one should say:

     Perchance some day the memory of this sorrow

     Will even bring delight.[7]

  Let such a man fight against them with all his might: if he once 
gives way, he will be vanquished; but if he strives against his suf-
ferings, he will conquer. As it is, however, what most men do is 
to drag down upon their own heads a falling ruin which they 
ought to try to support. If you begin to withdraw your support 
from that which thrusts toward you and totters and is ready to 
plunge, it will follow you and lean more heavily upon you; but if 
you hold your ground and make up your mind to push against 
it, it will be forced back.
  What blows do athletes receive on their faces and all over their 
bodies! Nevertheless, through their desire for fame they endure 
every torture, and they undergo these things not only because 
they are fighting but in order to be able to fight. Their very train-
ing means torture. So let us also win the way to victory in all our 
struggles—for the reward is not a garland or a palm or a trum-
peter who calls for silence at the proclamation of our names, but 
rather virtue, steadfastness of soul, and a peace that is won for all 
time, if fortune has once been utterly vanquished in any combat. 
You say, “I feel severe pain.”
116 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  What then; are you relieved from feeling it, if you endure it 
like a woman? Just as an enemy is more dangerous to a retreating 
army, so every trouble that fortune brings attacks us all the harder 
if we yield and turn our backs. “But the trouble is serious.” What? 
Is it for this purpose that we are strong—that we may have light 
burdens to bear? Would you have your illness long-drawn-out, or 
would you have it quick and short? If it is long, it means a respite, 
allows you a period for resting yourself, bestows upon you the 
boon of time in plenty; as it arises, so it must also subside. A short 
and rapid illness will do one of two things: it will quench or be 
quenched. And what difference does it make whether it is not or 
I am not? In either case there is an end of pain.
  This, too, will help—to turn the mind aside to thoughts of other 
things and thus to depart from pain. Call to mind what honour-
able or brave deeds you have done; consider the good side of your 
own life.[8] Run over in your memory those things which you 
have particularly admired. Then think of all the brave men who 
have conquered pain: of him who continued to read his book as 
he allowed the cutting out of varicose veins; of him who did not 
cease to smile, though that very smile so enraged his torturers 
that they tried upon him every instrument of their cruelty. If pain 
can be conquered by a smile, will it not be conquered by reason?
  You may tell me now of whatever you like—of colds, bad 
coughing-spells that bring up parts of our entrails, fever that 
parches our very vitals, thirst, limbs so twisted that the joints 
protrude in different directions; yet worse than these are the stake, 
the rack, the red-hot plates, the instrument that reopens wounds 
while the wounds themselves are still swollen and that drives their 
imprint still deeper.[9] Nevertheless there have been men who 
have not uttered a moan amid these tortures. “More yet!” says the 
torturer; but the victim has not begged for release. “More yet!” 
he says again; but no answer has come. “More yet!” the victim 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 117

has smiled, and heartily, too. Can you not bring yourself, after an 
example like this, to make a mock at pain?
  “But,” you object, “my illness does not allow me to be doing 
anything; it has withdrawn me from all my duties.” It is your body 
that is hampered by ill-health, and not your soul as well. It is for this 
reason that it clogs the feet of the runner and will hinder the handi-
work of the cobbler or the artisan; but if your soul be habitually 
in practice, you will plead and teach, listen and learn, investigate 
and meditate. What more is necessary? Do you think that you are 
doing nothing if you possess self-control in your illness? You will 
be showing that a disease can be overcome, or at any rate endured.
  There is, I assure you, a place for virtue even upon a bed of sick-
ness. It is not only the sword and the battle-line that prove the soul 
alert and unconquered by fear; a man can display bravery even 
when wrapped in his bed-clothes. You have something to do: wres-
tle bravely with disease. If it shall compel you to nothing, beguile 
you to nothing, it is a notable example that you display. O what 
ample matter were there for renown, if we could have spectators 
of our sickness! Be your own spectator; seek your own applause.
  Again, there are two kinds of pleasures. Disease checks the 
pleasures of the body, but does not do away with them. Nay, if 
the truth is to be considered, it serves to excite them; for the 
thirstier a man is, the more he enjoys a drink; the hungrier he is, 
the more pleasure he takes in food. Whatever falls to one’s lot after 
a period of abstinence is welcomed with greater zest. The other 
kind, however, the pleasures of the mind, which are higher and 
less uncertain, no physician can refuse to the sick man. Whoever 
seeks these and knows well what they are, scorns all the blandish-
ments of the senses.
  Men say, “Poor sick fellow!” But why? Is it because he does not 
mix snow with his wine, or because he does not revive the chill of 
his drink—mixed as it is in a good-sized bowl—by chipping ice 
118 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

into it? Or because he does not have Lucrine[10] oysters opened 
fresh at his table? Or because there is no din of cooks about his 
dining-hall, as they bring in their very cooking apparatus along 
with their viands? For luxury has already devised this fashion—of 
having the kitchen accompany the dinner, so that the food may 
not grow luke-warm, or fail to be hot enough for a palate which 
has already become hardened.
  “Poor sick fellow!”—he will eat as much as he can digest. There 
will be no boar lying before his eyes,[11] banished from the table 
as if it were a common meat; and on his sideboard there will be 
heaped together no breast-meat of birds, because it sickens him 
to see birds served whole. But what evil has been done to you? 
You will dine like a sick man, nay, sometimes like a sound man.[12]
  All these things, however, can be easily endured—gruel, warm 
water, and anything else that seems insupportable to a fastidi-
ous man, to one who is wallowing in luxury, sick in soul rather 
than in body—if only we cease to shudder at death. And we shall 
cease, if once we have gained a knowledge of the limits of good 
and evil; then, and then only, life will not weary us, neither will 
death make us afraid. 
  For surfeit of self can never seize upon a life that surveys all the 
things which are manifold, great, divine; only idle leisure is wont to 
make men hate their lives. To one who roams[13] through the uni-
verse, the truth can never pall; it will be the untruths that will cloy.
   And, on the other hand, if death comes near with its summons, 
even though it be untimely in its arrival, though it cut one off in 
one’s prime, a man has had a taste of all that the longest life can 
give. Such a man has in great measure come to understand the 
universe. He knows that honourable things do not depend on 
time for their growth; but any life must seem short to those who 
measure its length by pleasures which are empty and for that 
reason unbounded.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    119

   Refresh yourself with such thoughts as these, and meanwhile 
reserve some hours for our letters. There will come a time when 
we shall be united again and brought together; however short this 
time may be, we shall make it long by knowing how to employ it. 
For, as Posidonius says:[14] “A single day among the learned lasts 
longer than the longest life of the ignorant.”
   Meanwhile, hold fast to this thought, and grip it close: yield 
not to adversity; trust not to prosperity; keep before your eyes the 
full scope of Fortune’s power, as if she would surely do whatever 
is in her power to do. That which has been long expected comes 
more gently. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. To such a degree that Seneca’s enemy Caligula refrained from executing 
   him, on the ground that he would soon die.
  2. Cf. Ep. xv. 7 f.
  3. i.e., men have become healthier after passing through serious illness.
  4. Cf. Epicurus, Frag. 446 Usener.
  5. Compare, from among many parallels, Ep. xxiv. 14 (dolor) levis es, si ferre 
   possum, brevis es, si ferre non possum.
  6. See also Ep. xcv. 17. The word literally means “maggots,” “bots,” in horses 
   or cattle.
  7. Vergil, Aeneid, i. 203.
  8. Literally, perhaps, “the noble rôles which you have played.” Summers 
   compares Ep. xiv. 13 ultimas partes Catonis—“the closing scenes of Cato’s 
   life.”
  9. Cf. Ep. xiv. 4 f. and the crucibus adfixi, flamma usti, etc., of Tac. Ann. xv. 
   44.
10. Thelacus  Lucrinus was a salt-water lagoon, near Baiae in Campania.
11. i.e., to be looked at; there are better dainties on the table.
12. Sanus  is used (1) as signifying “sound in body” and (2) as the opposite of 
   insanus.
13. Perhaps a reminiscence of Lucretius i. 74 omne immensum peragravit 
   mente animoque.
14. Seneca often quotes Posidonius, as does Cicero also. These words 
   may have been taken from his Προτρεπτικά (or Λόγοι προτρεπτικοί), 
   Exhortations, a work in which he maintained that men should make a 
   close study of philosophy, in spite of the varying opinions of its expositors.
                    LETTER 79
    On the Rewards of Scientific Discovery
                        A

I have been awaiting a letter from you, that you might inform 
me what new matter was revealed to you during your trip round 
Sicily,[1] and especially that you might give me further informa-
tion regarding Charybdis itself.[2] I know very well that Scylla is a 
rock—and indeed a rock not dreaded by mariners; but with regard 
to Charybdis I should like to have a full description, in order to 
see whether it agrees with the accounts in mythology; and, if you 
have by chance investigated it (for it is indeed worthy of your 
investigation), please enlighten me concerning the following: Is it 
lashed into a whirlpool by a wind from only one direction, or do 
all storms alike serve to disturb its depths? Is it true that objects 
snatched downwards by the whirlpool in that strait are carried 
for many miles under water, and then come to the surface on the 
beach near Tauromenium?[3]
  If you will write me a full account of these matters, I shall 
then have the boldness to ask you to perform another task—also 
to climb Aetna at my special request. Certain naturalists have 
inferred that the mountain is wasting away and gradually settling, 
because sailors used to be able to see it from a greater distance. 
The reason for this may be, not that the height of the mountain 
is decreasing, but because the flames have become dim and the 
eruptions less strong and less copious, and because for the same 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 121

reason the smoke also is less active by day. However, either of 
these two things is possible to believe: that on the one hand the 
mountain is growing smaller because it is consumed from day 
to day, and that, on the other hand, it remains the same in size 
because the mountain is not devouring itself, but instead of this 
the matter which seethes forth collects in some subterranean val-
ley and is fed by other material, finding in the mountain itself not 
the food which it requires, but simply a passage-way out.
  There is a well-known place in Lycia—called by the inhabitants 
“Hephaestion”[4]—where the ground is full of holes in many places 
and is surrounded by a harmless fire, which does no injury to the 
plants that grow there. Hence the place is fertile and luxuriant 
with growth, because the flames do not scorch but merely shine 
with a force that is mild and feeble.
  But let us postpone this discussion, and look into the matter 
when you have given me a description just how far distant the 
snow lies from the crater—I mean the snow which does not melt 
even in summer, so safe is it from the adjacent fire. But there is 
no ground for your charging this work to my account; for you 
were about to gratify your own craze for fine writing, without a 
commission from anyone at all.
  Nay, what am I to offer younot  merely to describe[5] Aetna in 
your poem, and not to touch lightly upon a topic which is a matter 
of ritual for all poets? Ovid[6] could not be prevented from using 
this theme simply because Vergil[7] had already fully covered it; 
nor could either of these writers frighten off Cornelius Severus. 
Besides, the topic has served them all with happy results, and 
those who have gone before seem to me not to have forestalled 
all what could be said, but merely to have opened the way.
  It makes a great deal of difference whether you approach a 
subject that has been exhausted, or one where the ground has 
merely been broken; in the latter case, the topic grows day by 
122 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

day, and what is already discovered does not hinder new discov-
eries. Besides, he who writes last has the best of the bargain; he 
finds already at hand words which, when marshalled in a dif-
ferent way, show a new face. And he is not pilfering them, as if 
they belonged to someone else, when he uses them, for they are 
common property.
  Now if Aetna does not make your mouth water, I am mistaken 
in you. You have for some time been desirous of writing some-
thing in the grand style and on the level of the older school. For 
your modesty does not allow you to set your hopes any higher; 
this quality of yours is so pronounced that, it sees to me, you are 
likely to curb the force of your natural ability, if there should be 
any danger of outdoing others; so greatly do you reverence the 
old masters.
  Wisdom has this advantage, among others—that no man can 
be outdone by another, except during the climb. But when you 
have arrived at the top, it is a draw;[8] there is no room for further 
ascent, the game is over. Can the sun add to his size? Can the 
moon advance beyond her usual fullness? The seas do not increase 
in bulk. The universe keeps the same character, the same limits.
  Things which have reached their full stature cannot grow 
higher. Men who have attained wisdom will therefore be equal 
and on the same footing. Each of them will possess his own pecu-
liar gifts[9]—one will be more affable, another more facile, another 
more ready of speech, a fourth more eloquent; but as regards 
the quality under discussion—the element that produces happi-
ness—it is equal in them all.
  I do not know whether this Aetna of yours can collapse and fall 
in ruins, whether this lofty summit, visible for many miles over 
the deep sea, is wasted by the incessant power of the flames; but 
I do know that virtue will not be brought down to a lower plane 
either by flames or by ruins. Hers is the only greatness that knows 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 123

no lowering; there can be for her no further rising or sinking. 
Her stature, like that of the stars in the heavens, is fixed. Let us 
therefore strive to raise ourselves to this altitude.
  Already much of the task is accomplished; nay, rather, if I can 
bring myself to confess the truth, not much. For goodness does 
not mean merely being better than the lowest. Who that could 
catch but a mere glimpse of the daylight would boast his powers 
of vision? One who sees the sun shining through a mist may be 
contented meanwhile that he has escaped darkness, but he does 
not yet enjoy the blessing of light.
  Our souls will not have reason to rejoice in their lot until, freed 
from this darkness in which they grope, they have not merely 
glimpsed the brightness with feeble vision, but have absorbed 
the full light of day and have been restored to their place in the 
sky—until, indeed, they have regained the place which they held 
at the allotment of their birth. The soul is summoned upward by 
its very origin. And it will reach that goal even before it is released 
from its prison below, as soon as it has cast off sin and, in purity 
and lightness, has leaped up into celestial realms of thought.
  I am glad, beloved Lucilius, that we are occupied with this 
ideal, that we pursue it with all our might, even though few know 
it, or none. Fame is the shadow of virtue; it will attend virtue 
even against her will. But, as the shadow sometimes precedes 
and sometimes follows or even lags behind, so fame sometimes 
goes before us and shows herself in plain sight, and sometimes 
is in the rear, and is all the greater in proportion as she is late in 
coming, when once envy has beaten a retreat.
  How long did men believe Democritus[10] to be mad! Glory 
barely came to Socrates. And how long did our state remain in 
ignorance of Cato! They rejected him, and did not know his worth 
until they had lost him. If Rutilius[11] had not resigned himself 
to wrong, his innocence and virtue would have escaped notice; 
124 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

the hour of his suffering was the hour of his triumph. Did he not 
give thanks for his lot, and welcome his exile with open arms? 
I have mentioned thus far those to whom Fortune has brought 
renown at the very moment of persecution; but how many there 
are whose progress toward virtue has come to light only after 
their death! And how many have been ruined, not rescued, by 
their reputation?
  There is Epicurus, for example; mark how greatly he is admired, 
not only by the more cultured, but also by this ignorant rabble. 
This man, however, was unknown to Athens itself, near which he 
had hidden himself away. And so, when he had already survived 
by many years his friend Metrodorus, he added in a letter these 
last words, proclaiming with thankful appreciation the friendship 
that had existed between them: “So greatly blest were Metrodorus 
and I that it has been no harm to us to be unknown, and almost 
unheard of, in this well-known land of Greece.”[12]
  Is it not true, therefore, that men did not discover him until 
after he had ceased to be? Has not his renown shone forth, for 
all that? Metrodorus also admits this fact in one of his letters:[13] 
that Epicurus and he were not well known to the public; but he 
declares that after the lifetime of Epicurus and himself any man 
who might wish to follow in their footsteps would win great and 
ready-made renown.
  Virtue is never lost to view; and yet to have been lost to view is 
no loss. There will come a day which will reveal her, though hid-
den away or suppressed by the spite of her contemporaries. That 
man is born merely for a few, who thinks only of the people of his 
own generation. Many thousands of years and many thousands 
of peoples will come after you; it is to these that you should have 
regard. Malice may have imposed silence upon the mouths of all 
who were alive in your day; but there will come men who will 
judge you without prejudice and without favour. If there is any 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    125

reward that virtue receives at the hands of fame, not even this can 
pass away. We ourselves, indeed, shall not be affected by the talk 
of posterity; nevertheless, posterity will cherish and celebrate us 
even though we are not conscious thereof.
   Virtue has never failed to reward a man, both during his life 
and after his death, provided he has followed her loyally, provided 
he has not decked himself out or painted himself up, but has been 
always the same, whether he appeared before men’s eyes after 
being announced, or suddenly and without preparation. Pretence 
accomplishes nothing. Few are deceived by a mask that is easily 
drawn over the face. Truth is the same in every part. Things which 
deceive us have no real substance. Lies are thin stuff; they are 
transparent, if you examine them with care. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Ellis suggests that the poem Aetna, of uncertain authorship, may have 
   been written by Lucilius in response to this letter. His view is plausible, 
   but not universally accepted.
  2. See Ep. xiv. § 8 and note (Vol. I.).
  3. The modern Taormina.
  4. Another description of this region is given by Pliny, N. H. ii. 106, who 
   says that the stones in the rivers were red-hot! The phenomenon is usually 
   explained by supposing springs of burning naphtha.
  5. i.e., merely as an episode, instead of devoting a whole poem to the subject.
 6. Metam. xv. 340 ff.
 7. Aeneid, iii. 570 ff.
  8. The usual meaning ofparia  esse, or paria facere (a favourite phrase with 
   Seneca—see for example Ep. ci. 7), is “to square the account,” “balance 
   even.”
  9. “Qualities desirable in themselves, but not essential for the possession of 
   wisdom, the προηγμένα of the Stoics,” (Summers).
10. There is an unauthenticated story that the men of Abdera called in 
   Hippocrates to treat his malady.
11. Cf. Ep. xxiv. 4 exilium . . . tulit Rutilius etiam libenter.
12. Frag. 188 Usener.
13. Frag. 43 Körte.
126     THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2
                   LETTER 80
            On Worldly Deceptions
                       A

Today I have some free time, thanks not so much to myself as to 
the games, which have attracted all the bores to the boxing-match.
[1] No one will interrupt me or disturb the train of my thoughts, 
which go ahead more boldly as the result of my very confidence. 
My door has not been continually creaking on its hinges nor will 
my curtain be pulled aside;[2] my thoughts may march safely on—
and that is all the more necessary for one who goes independently 
and follows out his own path. Do I then follow no predecessors? 
Yes, but I allow myself to discover something new, to alter, to 
reject. I am not a slave to them, although I give them my approval.
  And yet that was a very bold word which I spoke when I assured 
myself that I should have some quiet, and some uninterrupted 
retirement. For lo, a great cheer comes from the stadium, and 
while it does not drive me distracted, yet it shifts my thought to 
a contrast suggested by this very noise. How many men, I say to 
myself, train their bodies, and how few train their minds![3] What 
crowds flock to the games, spurious as they are and arranged 
merely for pastime—and what a solitude reigns where the good 
arts are taught! How feather-brained are the athletes whose mus-
cles and shoulders we admire!

Artwork opposite by Nimit Malavia
128 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  The question which I ponder most of all is this; if the body 
can be trained to such a degree of endurance that it will stand 
the blows and kicks of several opponents at once and to such a 
degree that a man can last out the day and resist the scorching sun 
in the midst of the burning dust, drenched all the while with his 
own blood—if this can be done, how much more easily might the 
mind be toughened so that it could receive the blows of Fortune 
and not be conquered, so that it might struggle to its feet again 
after it has been laid low, after it has been trampled under foot?
  For although the body needs many things in order to be strong, 
yet the mind grows from within, giving to itself nourishment and 
exercise. Yonder athletes must have copious food, copious drink, 
copious quantities of oil, and long training besides; but you can 
acquire virtue without equipment and without expense. All that 
goes to make you a good man lies within yourself.
  And what do you need in order to become good? To wish it. 
But what better thing could you wish for than to break away from 
this slavery, a slavery that oppresses us all, a slavery which even 
chattels of the lowest estate, born amid such degradation, strive 
in every possible way to strip off? In exchange for freedom they 
pay out the savings which they have scraped together by cheating 
their own bellies; shall you not be eager to attain liberty at any 
price, seeing that you claim it as your birthright?
  Why cast glances toward your strong-box? Liberty cannot be 
bought. It is therefore useless to enter in your ledger[4] the item of 
“Freedom,” for freedom is possessed neither by those who have 
bought it, nor by those who have sold it. You must give this good 
to yourself, and seek it from yourself.
  First of all, free yourself from the fear of death, for death puts 
the yoke about our necks; then free yourself from the fear of 
poverty.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 129

  If you would know how little evil there is in poverty, com-
pare the faces of the poor with those of the rich; the poor man 
smiles more often and more genuinely; his troubles do not go 
deep down; even if any anxiety comes upon him, it passes like a 
fitful cloud. But the merriment of those whom men call happy 
is feigned, while their sadness is heavy and festering, and all the 
heavier because they may not meanwhile display their grief, but 
must act the part of happiness in the midst of sorrows that eat 
out their very hearts.
  I often feel called upon to use the following illustration, and it 
seems to me that none expresses more effectively this drama of 
human life, wherein we are assigned the parts which we are to 
play so badly. Yonder is the man who stalks upon the stage with 
swelling port and head thrown back, and says:

     Lo, I am he whom Argos hails as lord,

     Whom Pelops left the heir of lands that spread
     From Hellespont and from th’ Ionian sea
     E’en to the Isthmian straits.[5]

  And who is this fellow? He is but a slave; his wage is five mea-
sures of grain and five denarii.
  Yon other who, proud and wayward and puffed up by confi-
dence in his power, declaims:

     Peace, Menelaus, or this hand shall slay thee![5]

receives a daily pittance and sleeps on rags. You may speak in the 
same way about all these dandies whom you see riding in litters 
above the heads of men and above the crowd; in every case their 
happiness is put on like the actor’s mask. Tear it off, and you will 
scorn them.
  When you buy a horse, you order its blanket to be removed; 
you pull off the garments from slaves that are advertised for sale, 
130 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

so that no bodily flaws may escape your notice; if you judge a 
man, do you judge him when he is wrapped in a disguise? Slave 
dealers hide under some sort of finery any defect which may 
give offence,[6] and for that reason the very trappings arouse the 
suspicion of the buyer. If you catch sight of a leg or an arm that is 
bound up in cloths, you demand that it be stripped and that the 
body itself be revealed to you.
  Do you see yonder Scythian or Sarmatian king, his head 
adorned with the badge of his office? If you wish to see what he 
amounts to, and to know his full worth, take off his diadem; much 
evil lurks beneath it. But why do I speak of others? If you wish to 
set a value on yourself, put away your money, your estates, your 
honours, and look into your own soul. At present, you are taking 
the word of others for what you are. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Probably a contest in which the participants attached leaden weights to 
 their hands in order to increase the force of the blows.
2. Compare Pliny’s “den” (Ep. ii. 17. 21): quae specularibus et velis obductis 
 reductisve modo adicitur cubiculo modo aufertur.
3. Compare the ideas expressed in Ep. xv. 2 f.
4. For this figure see the lucellum“ ,” “ diurna mercedula,” etc., of the opening 
 letters of the correspondence (Vol. I.).
5. Authors unknown; Ribbeck, Frag. Trag. pp. 289 and 276. The first passage 
 (with one change) is also quoted by Quintilian, ix. 4. 140. See, however, 
 Tyrrell, Latin Poetry, p.39, who calls this passage the beginning of Attius’s 
 Atreus.
6. A favourite trick; cf. Quintil. ii. 15. 25 mangones, qui colorem fuco et verum 
 robur inani sagina mentiuntur.
                   LETTER 81
                  On Benefits[1]
                       A

You complain that you have met with an ungrateful person. If 
this is your first experience of that sort, you should offer thanks 
either to your good luck or to your caution. In this case, however, 
caution can effect nothing but to make you ungenerous. For if you 
wish to avoid such a danger, you will not confer benefits; and so, 
that benefits may not be lost with another man, they will be lost 
to yourself.
  It is better, however, to get no return than to confer no benefits. 
Even after a poor crop one should sow again; for often losses due 
to continued barrenness of an unproductive soil have been made 
good by one year’s fertility.
  In order to discover one grateful person, it is worth while to 
make trial of many ungrateful ones. No man has so unerring a 
hand when he confers benefits that he is not frequently deceived; 
it is well for the traveller to wander, that he may again cleave to 
the path. After a shipwreck, sailors try the sea again. The banker 
is not frightened away from the forum by the swindler. If one 
were compelled to drop everything that caused trouble, life would 
soon grow dull amid sluggish idleness; but in your case this very 
condition may prompt you to become more charitable. For when 
the outcome of any undertaking is unsure, you must try again and 
again, in order to succeed ultimately.
132 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  I have, however, discussed the matter with sufficient fullness 
in the volumes which I have written, entitled “On Benefits.”[2]
  What I think should rather be investigated is this—a question 
which I feel has not been made sufficiently clear: “Whether he 
who has helped us has squared the account and has freed us from 
our debt, if he has done us harm later.” You may add this question 
also, if you like: “when the harm done later has been more than 
the help rendered previously.”
  If you are seeking for the formal and just decision of a strict 
judge, you will find that he checks off one act by the other, and 
declares: “Though the injuries outweigh the benefits, yet we 
should credit to the benefits anything that stands over even after 
the injury.” The harm done was indeed greater, but the helpful act 
was done first. Hence the time also should be taken into account.
  Other cases are so clear that I need not remind you that you 
should also look into such points as: How gladly was the help 
offered, and how reluctantly was the harm done—since benefits, 
as well as injuries, depend on the spirit. “I did not wish to confer 
the benefit; but I was won over by my respect for the man, or by 
the importunity of his request, or by hope.”
  Our feeling about every obligation depends in each case upon 
the spirit in which the benefit is conferred; we weigh not the 
bulk of the gift, but the quality of the good-will which prompted 
it. So now let us do away with guess-work; the former deed was 
a benefit, and the latter, which transcended the earlier benefit, is 
an injury. The good man so arranges the two sides of his ledger[3] 
that he voluntarily cheats himself by adding to the benefit and 
subtracting from the injury.
  The more indulgent magistrate, however (and I should rather 
be such a one), will order us to forget the injury and remember 
the accommodation.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 133

  “But surely,” you say, “it is the part of justice to render to each 
that which is his due—thanks in return for a benefit, and retribu-
tion,[4] or at any rate ill-will, in return for an injury!” This, I say, 
will be true when it is one man who has inflicted the injury, and 
a different man who has conferred the benefit; for if it is the same 
man, the force of the injury is nullified by the benefit conferred. 
Indeed, a man who ought to be pardoned, even though there 
were no good deeds credited to him in the past, should receive 
something more than mere leniency if he commits a wrong when 
he has a benefit to his credit.
  I do not set an equal value on benefits and injuries. I reckon 
a benefit at a higher rate than an injury. Not all grateful persons 
know what it involves to be in debt for a benefit; even a thought-
less, crude fellow, one of the common herd, may know, espe-
cially soon after he has received the gift; but he does not know 
how deeply he stands in debt therefor. Only the wise man knows 
exactly what value should be put upon everything; for the fool 
whom I just mentioned, no matter how good his intentions may 
be, either pays less than he owes, or pays it at the wrong time or 
the wrong place. That for which he should make return he wastes 
and loses.
  There is a marvellously accurate phraseology applied to certain 
subjects,[5] a long-established terminology which indicates certain 
acts by means of symbols that are most efficient and that serve 
to outline men’s duties. We are, as you know, wont to speak thus: 
“A. has made a return for the favour bestowed by B.” Making a 
return means handing over of your own accord that which you 
owe. We do not say, “He has paid back the favour”; for “pay back” 
is used of a man upon whom a demand for payment is made, of 
those who pay against their will. Of those who pay under any 
circumstances whatsoever, and of those who pay through a third 
party. We do not say, “He has ‘restored’ the benefit,” or ‘settled’ it; 
134 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

we have never been satisfied with a word which applies properly 
to a debt of money.
  Making a return means offering something to him from whom 
you have received something. The phrase implies a voluntary 
return; he who has made such a return has served the writ upon 
himself.
  The wise man will inquire in his own mind into all the circum-
stances: how much he has received, from whom, when, where, 
how. And so we[6] declare that none but the wise man knows how 
to make return for a favour; moreover, none but the wise man 
knows how to confer a benefit—that man, I mean, who enjoys the 
giving more than the recipient enjoys the receiving.
  Now some person will reckon this remark as one of the gen-
erally surprising statements such as we Stoics are wont to make 
and such as the Greeks call “paradoxes,”[7] and will say: “Do you 
maintain, then, that only the wise man knows how to return a 
favour? Do you maintain that no one else knows how to make 
restoration to a creditor for a debt? Or, on buying a commodity, 
to pay full value to the seller?” In order not to bring any odium 
upon myself, let me tell you that Epicurus says the same thing. 
At any rate, Metrodorus remarks[8] that only the wise man knows 
how to return a favour.
  Again, the objector mentioned above wonders at our saying: 
“The wise man alone knows how to love, the wise man alone is a 
real friend.” And yet it is a part of love and of friendship to return 
favours; nay, further, it is an ordinary act, and happens more fre-
quently than real friendship. Again, this same objector wonders at 
our saying, “There is no loyalty except in the wise man,” just as if 
he himself does not say the same thing! Or do you think that there 
is any loyalty in him who does not know how to return a favour?
  These men, accordingly, should cease to discredit us, just as if 
we were uttering an impossible boast; they should understand that 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 135

the essence of honour resides in the wise man, while among the 
crowd we find only the ghost and the semblance of honour. None 
but the wise man knows how to return a favour. Even a fool can 
return it in proportion to his knowledge and his power; his fault 
would be a lack of knowledge rather than a lack of will or desire. 
To will does not come by teaching.
   The wise man will compare all things with one another; for 
the very same object becomes greater or smaller, according to the 
time, the place, and the cause. Often the riches that are spent in 
profusion upon a palace cannot accomplish as much as a thou-
sand denarii given at the right time. Now it makes a great deal of 
difference whether you give outright, or come to a man’s assis-
tance, whether your generosity saves him, or sets him up in life. 
Often the gift is small, but the consequences great. And what a 
distinction do you imagine there is between taking something 
which one lacks—something which was offered—and receiving 
a benefit in order to confer one in return?
  But we should not slip back into the subject which we have 
already sufficiently investigated. In this balancing of benefits and 
injuries, the good man will, to be sure, judge with the highest 
degree of fairness, but he will incline towards the side of the ben-
efit; he will turn more readily in this direction.
  Moreover, in affairs of this kind the person concerned is wont 
to count for a great deal. Men say: “You conferred a benefit upon 
me in that matter of the slave, but you did me an injury in the case 
of my father” or, “You saved my son, but robbed me of a father.” 
Similarly, he will follow up all other matters in which comparisons 
can be made, and if the difference be very slight, he will pretend 
not to notice it. Even though the difference be great, yet if the 
concession can be made without impairment of duty and loyalty, 
our good man will overlook that is, provided the injury exclusively 
affects the good man himself.
136 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  To sum up, the matter stands thus: the good man will be easy-
going in striking a balance; he will allow too much to be set against 
his credit. He will be unwilling to pay a benefit by balancing the 
injury against it. The side towards which he will lean, the tendency 
which he will exhibit, is the desire to be under obligations for the 
favour, and the desire to make return therefor. For anyone who 
receives a benefit more gladly than he repays it is mistaken. By as 
much as he who pays is more light-hearted than he who borrows, 
by so much ought he to be more joyful who unburdens himself 
of the greatest debt—a benefit received—than he who incurs the 
greatest obligations.
  For ungrateful men make mistakes in this respect also: they 
have to pay their creditors both capital and interest,[9] but they 
think that benefits are currency which they can use without inter-
est. So the debts grow through postponement, and the later the 
action is postponed the more remains to be paid. A man is an 
ingrate if he repays a favour without interest. Therefore, interest 
also should be allowed for, when you compare your receipts and 
your expenses.
  We should try by all means to be as grateful as possible.
  For gratitude is a good thing for ourselves, in a sense in which 
justice, that is commonly supposed to concern other persons, is 
not; gratitude returns in large measure unto itself. There is not a 
man who, when he has benefited his neighbour, has not benefited 
himself—I do not mean for the reason that he whom you have 
aided will desire to aid you, or that he whom you have defended 
will desire to protect you, or that an example of good conduct 
returns in a circle to benefit the doer, just as examples of bad 
conduct recoil upon their authors, and as men find no pity if they 
suffer wrongs which they themselves have demonstrated the pos-
sibility of committing; but that the reward for all the virtues lies 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 137

in the virtues themselves. For they are not practiced with a view 
to recompense; the wages of a good deed is to have done it.[10]
  I am grateful, not in order that my neighbour, provoked by 
the earlier act of kindness, may be more ready to benefit me, but 
simply in order that I may perform a most pleasant and beautiful 
act; I feel grateful, not because it profits me, but because it pleases 
me. And, to prove the truth of this to you, I declare that even if 
I may not be grateful without seeming ungrateful, even if I am 
able to retain a benefit only by an act which resembles an injury; 
even so, I shall strive in the utmost calmness of spirit toward the 
purpose which honour demands, in the very midst of disgrace. No 
one, I think, rates virtue higher or is more consecrated to virtue 
than he who has lost his reputation for being a good man in order 
to keep from losing the approval of his conscience.
  Thus, as I have said, your being grateful is more conducive to 
your own good than to your neighbour’s good. For while your 
neighbour has had a common, everyday experience—namely, 
receiving back the gift which he had bestowed—you have had a 
great experience which is the outcome of an utterly happy condi-
tion of soul—to have felt gratitude. For if wickedness makes men 
unhappy and virtue makes men blest, and if it is a virtue to be 
grateful, then the return which you have made is only the cus-
tomary thing, but the thing to which you have attained is price-
less—the consciousness of gratitude, which comes only to the soul 
that is divine and blessed. The opposite feeling to this, however, 
is immediately attended by the greatest unhappiness; no man, if 
he be ungrateful, will be unhappy in the future. I allow him no 
day of grace; he is unhappy forthwith.
  Let us therefore avoid being ungrateful, not for the sake of oth-
ers but for our own sakes. When we do wrong, only the least and 
lightest portion of it flows back upon our neighbour; the worst 
and, if I may use the term, the densest portion of it stays at home 
138 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

and troubles the owner.[11] My master Attalus used to say: “Evil 
herself drinks the largest portion of her own poison.” The poison 
which serpents carry for the destruction of others, and secrete 
without harm to themselves, is not like this poison; for this sort 
is ruinous to the possessor.
  The ungrateful man tortures and torments himself; he hates 
the gifts which he has accepted, because he must make a return 
for them, and he tries to belittle their value, but he really enlarges 
and exaggerates the injuries which he has received. And what is 
more wretched than a man who forgets his benefits and clings 
to his injuries?
  Wisdom, on the other hand, lends grace to every benefit, and 
of her own free will commends it to her own favour, and delights 
her soul by continued recollection thereof.
  Evil men have but one pleasure in benefits, and a very short-
lived pleasure at that; it lasts only while they are receiving them. 
But the wise man derives therefrom an abiding and eternal joy. 
For he takes delight not so much in receiving the gift as in hav-
ing received it; and this joy never perishes; it abides with him 
always. He despises the wrongs done him; he forgets them, not 
accidentally, but voluntarily.
  He does not put a wrong construction upon everything, or 
seek for someone whom he may hold responsible for each hap-
pening; he rather ascribes even the sins of men to chance. He will 
not misinterpret a word or a look; he makes light of all mishaps 
by interpreting them in a generous way.[12] He does not remem-
ber an injury rather than a service. As far as possible, he lets his 
memory rest upon the earlier and the better deed, never changing 
his attitude towards those who have deserved well of him, except 
in climes where the bad deeds far outdistance the good, and the 
space between them is obvious even to one who closes his eyes to 
it; even then only to this extent, that he strives, after receiving the 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 139

preponderant injury, to resume the attitude which he held before 
he received the benefit. For when the injury merely equals the 
benefit, a certain amount of kindly feeling is left over.
  Just as a defendant is acquitted when the votes are equal, and 
just as the spirit of kindliness always tries to bend every doubt-
ful case toward the better interpretation, so the mind of the wise 
man, when another’s merits merely equal his bad deeds, will, to 
be sure, cease to feel an obligation, but does not cease to desire 
to feel it, and acts precisely like the man who pays his debts even 
after they have been legally cancelled.[13]
  But no man can be grateful unless he has learned to scorn the 
things which drive the common herd to distraction; if you wish to 
make return for a favour, you must be willing to go into exile—or 
to pour forth your blood, or to undergo poverty, or—and this will 
frequently happen—even to let your very innocence be stained 
and exposed to shameful slanders. It is no slight price that a man 
must pay for being grateful.
  We hold nothing dearer than a benefit, so long as we are seek-
ing one; we hold nothing cheaper after we have received it. Do 
you ask what it is that makes us forget benefits received? It is our 
extreme greed for receiving others. We consider not what we have 
obtained, but what we are to seek. We are deflected from the right 
course by riches, titles, power, and everything which is valuable 
in our opinion but worthless when rated at its real value.
  We do not know how to weigh matters;[14] we should take 
counsel regarding them, not with their reputation but with their 
nature; those things possess no grandeur wherewith to enthral 
our minds, except the fact that we have become accustomed to 
marvel at them. For they are not praised because they ought to 
be desired, but they are desired because they have been praised; 
and when the error of individuals has once created error on the 
140 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

part of the public, then the public error goes on creating error on 
the part of individuals.
  But just as we take on faith such estimates of values, so let us 
take on the faith of the people this truth that nothing is more 
honourable than a grateful heart. This phrase will be echoed by 
all cities, and by all races, even those from savage countries. Upon 
this point—good and bad will agree.
  Some praise pleasure, some prefer toil; some say that pain is 
the greatest of evils, some say it is no evil at all; some will include 
riches in the Supreme Good, others will say that their discovery 
meant harm to the human race, and that none is richer than he to 
whom Fortune has found nothing to give. Amid all this diversity 
of opinion all men will yet with one voice, as the saying is, vote 
“aye” to the proposition that thanks should be returned to those 
who have deserved well of us. On this question the common 
herd, rebellious as they are, will all agree, but at present we keep 
paying back injuries instead of benefits, and the primary reason 
why a man is ungrateful is that he has found it impossible to be 
grateful enough.
  Our madness has gone to such lengths that it is a very danger-
ous thing to confer great benefits upon a person; for just because 
he thinks it shameful not to repay, so he would have none left alive 
whom he should repay. “Keep for yourself what you have received; 
I do not ask it back—I do not demand it. Let it be safe to have 
conferred a favour.”[15] There is no worse hatred than that which 
springs from shame at the desecration of a benefit.[16] Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. The reader will be interested to compare this letter with the treatise 
  (or essay) On Benefits,De  Beneficiis, which was dedicated to Aebutius 
  Liberalis, the subject of Ep. xci.
  2. See De Ben. i. 1. 9 f. non est autem quod tardiores faciat ad bene merendum 
  turba ingratorum.
  3. Calculi  were counters, spread out on the abacus, or counting-board; they 
  ran in columns, by millions, hundred thousands, etc.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    141

  4. Talio  (from talis, “just so much”) is the old Roman law of “eye for eye and 
   tooth for tooth.” As law became less crude, it gave way to fines.
  5. This “long-established terminology” applies to theverborum  proprietas 
   of philosophic diction, with especial reference to τὰ καθήκοντα, the 
   appropriate duties of the philosopher and the seeker after wisdom. Thus, 
   referre is distinguished from reddere, reponere, solvere, and other financial 
   terms.
  6. i.e., the Stoics.
  7. e.g., “Only the wise man is king,” “there is no mean between virtue and 
   vice,” “pain is no evil,” “only the wise man is free,” “riches are not a good” 
   etc.
  8. Frag. 54 Körte.
  9. Literally, “more than the capital and in addition to the rate of interest.”
10. Beneficence is a subdivision of the second cardinal virtue of the Stoics, 
   Justice. Cicero discusses this topic at length in De Off. i. 42 ff.
11. Perhaps a figure from the vintage. For the same metaphor, though in 
   a different connexion, see Ep. i. 5, and Ep. cviii. 26:quemadmodum  ex 
   amphora primum, quod est sincerissimum, effluit, gravissimum quodque 
   turbidumque subsidit, sic in aetate nostra quod est optimum, in primo est.
12. Cf. § 6: “The good man so arranges the two sides of his ledger that he 
   voluntarily cheats himself by adding to the benefit and subtracting from 
   the injury.” Cf. also § 17: “The good man will be easy-going in striking a 
   balance; he will allow too much to be set against his credit.”
13. When by law or special enactment novae tabellae were granted to special 
   classes of debtors, their debts, as in our bankruptcy courts, were cancelled.
14. Cf. Ep. xxxi. 6 quid ergo est bonum? rerum scientia.
15. The words are put into the mouth of an imaginary benefactor who fears 
   for his own life.
16. Cf. Tac. Agric. 42 proprium humani ingenii est odisse quem laeseris.
                    LETTER 82
         On the Natural Fear of Death
                        A

I have already ceased to be anxious about you. “Whom then of 
the gods,” you ask, “have you found as your voucher?”[1] A god, 
let me tell you, who deceives no one—a soul in love with that 
which is upright and good. The better part of yourself is on safe 
ground. Fortune can inflict injury upon you; what is more perti-
nent is that I have no fears lest you do injury to yourself. Proceed 
as you have begun, and settle yourself in this way of living, not 
luxuriously, but calmly.
  I prefer to be in trouble rather than in luxury; and you had 
better interpret the term “in trouble” as popular usage is wont 
to interpret it: living a “hard,” “rough,” “toilsome” life. We are 
wont to hear the lives of certain men praised as follows, when 
they are objects of unpopularity: “So-and-So lives luxuriously”; 
but by this they mean: “He is softened by luxury.” For the soul 
is made womanish by degrees, and is weakened until it matches 
the ease and laziness in which it lies. Lo, is it not better for one 
who is really a man even to become hardened?[2] Next, these same 
dandies fear that which they have made their own lives resemble. 
Much difference is there between lying idle and lying buried![3]
  “But,” you say, “is it not better even to lie idle than to whirl 
round in these eddies of business distraction?” Both extremes 
are to be deprecated—both tension and sluggishness. I hold that 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 143

he who lies on a perfumed couch is no less dead than he who is 
dragged along by the executioner’s hook.
  Leisure without study is death; it is a tomb for the living man.
  What then is the advantage of retirement? As if the real causes 
of our anxieties did not follow us across the seas! What hiding-
place is there, where the fear of death does not enter? What peace-
ful haunts are there, so fortified and so far withdrawn that pain 
does not fill them with fear? Wherever you hide yourself, human 
ills will make an uproar all around. There are many external 
things which compass us about, to deceive us or to weigh upon 
us; there are many things within which, even amid solitude, fret 
and ferment.
  Therefore, gird yourself about with philosophy, an impregnable 
wall. Though it be assaulted by many engines, Fortune can find no 
passage into it. The soul stands on unassailable ground, if it has 
abandoned external things; it is independent in its own fortress; 
and every weapon that is hurled falls short of the mark. Fortune 
has not the long reach with which we credit her; she can seize 
none except him that clings to her.
   Let us then recoil from her as far as we are able. This will be 
possible for us only through knowledge of self and of the world[4] 
of Nature. The soul should know whither it is going and whence it 
came, what is good for it and what is evil, what it seeks and what 
it avoids, and what is that Reason which distinguishes between 
the desirable and the undesirable, and thereby tames the madness 
of our desires and calms the violence of our fears.
  Some men flatter themselves that they have checked these evils 
by themselves even without the aid of philosophy; but when some 
accident catches them off their guard, a tardy confession of error 
is wrung from them. Their boastful words perish from their lips 
when the torturer commands them to stretch forth their hands, 
and when death draws nearer! You might say to such a man: “It 
144 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

was easy for you to challenge evils that were not near-by; but here 
comes pain, which you declared you could endure; here comes 
death, against which you uttered many a courageous boast! The 
whip cracks, the sword flashes:

     Ah now, Aeneas, thou must needs be stout

     And strong of heart!” [5]

  This strength of heart, however, will come from constant study, 
provided that you practice, not with the tongue but with the soul, 
and provided that you prepare yourself to meet death. To enable 
yourself to meet death, you may expect no encouragement or 
cheer from those who try to make you believe, by means of their 
hair-splitting logic, that death is no evil. For I take pleasure, excel-
lent Lucilius, in poking fun at the absurdities of the Greeks, of 
which, to my continual surprise, I have not yet succeeded in rid-
ding myself.
  Our master Zeno[6] uses a syllogism like this: “No evil is glori-
ous; but death is glorious; therefore death is no evil.” A cure, Zeno! 
I have been freed from fear; henceforth I shall not hesitate to bare 
my neck on the scaffold. Will you not utter sterner words instead 
of rousing a dying man to laughter? Indeed, Lucilius, I could not 
easily tell you whether he who thought that he was quenching the 
fear of death by setting up this syllogism was the more foolish, 
or he who attempted to refute it, just as if it had anything to do 
with the matter!
  For the refuter himself proposed a counter-syllogism, based 
upon the proposition that we regard death as “indifferent,”—one 
of the things which the Greeks call ἀδιάφορα.[7] “Nothing,” he 
says, “that is indifferent can be glorious; death is glorious; there-
fore death is not indifferent.” You comprehend the tricky fallacy 
which is contained in this syllogism.—mere death is, in fact, 
not glorious; but a brave death is glorious. And when you say, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 145

“Nothing that is indifferent is glorious,” I grant you this much, 
and declare that nothing is glorious except as it deals with indif-
ferent things. I classify as “indifferent,”—that is, neither good nor 
evil—sickness, pain, poverty, exile, death. 
  None of these things is intrinsically glorious; but nothing can 
be glorious apart from them. For it is not poverty that we praise, 
it is the man whom poverty cannot humble or bend. Nor is it exile 
that we praise, it is the man who withdraws into exile in the spirit 
in which he would have sent another into exile. It is not pain that 
we praise, it is the man whom pain has not coerced. One praises 
not death, but the man whose soul death takes away before it can 
confound it.
  All these things are in themselves neither honourable nor glo-
rious; but any one of them that virtue has visited and touched 
is made honourable and glorious by virtue; they merely lie in 
between,[8] and the decisive question is only whether wickedness 
or virtue has laid hold upon them. For instance, the death which 
in Cato’s case is glorious, is in the case of Brutus[9] forthwith base 
and disgraceful. For this Brutus, condemned to death, was trying 
to obtain postponement; he withdrew a moment in order to ease 
himself; when summoned to die and ordered to bare his throat, 
he exclaimed: “I will bare my throat, if only I may live!” What 
madness it is to run away, when it is impossible to turn back! “I 
will bare my throat, if only I may live!” He came very near saying 
also: “even under Antony!” This fellow deserved indeed to be 
consigned to life!
  But, as I was going on to remark, you see that death in itself is 
neither an evil nor a good; Cato experienced death most honour-
ably, Brutus most basely. Everything, if you add virtue, assumes a 
glory which it did not possess before. We speak of a sunny room, 
even though the same room is pitch-dark at night.
146 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  It is the day which fills it with light, and the night which steals 
the light away; thus it is with the things which we call indifferent 
and “middle,”[10] like riches, strength, beauty, titles, kingship, and 
their opposites—death, exile, ill-health, pain, and all such evils, 
the fear of which upsets us to a greater or less extent; it is the 
wickedness or the virtue that bestows the name of good or evil. 
An object is not by its own essence either hot or cold; it is heated 
when thrown into a furnace, and chilled when dropped into water. 
Death is honourable when related to that which is honourable; by 
this I mean virtue and a soul that despises the worst hardships.
   Furthermore, there are vast distinctions among these quali-
ties which we call “middle.” For example, death is not so indif-
ferent as the question whether your hair should be worn evenly 
or unevenly. Death belongs among those things which are not 
indeed evils, but still have in them a semblance of evil; for there 
are implanted in us love of self, a desire for existence and self-
preservation, and also an abhorrence of dissolution, because death 
seems to rob us of many goods and to withdraw us from the 
abundance to which we have become accustomed. And there is 
another element which estranges us from death, we are already 
familiar with the present, but are ignorant of the future into which 
we shall transfer ourselves, and we shrink from the unknown. 
Moreover, it is natural to fear the world of shades, whither death 
is supposed to lead.
  Therefore, although death is something indifferent, it is nev-
ertheless not a thing which we can easily ignore. The soul must 
be hardened by long practice, so that it may learn to endure the 
sight and the approach of death.
  Death ought to be despised more than it is wont to be despised. 
For we believe too many of the stories about death. Many thinkers 
have striven hard to increase its ill repute; they have portrayed the 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 147

prison in the world below and the land overwhelmed by everlast-
ing night, where

     Within his blood-stained cave Hell’s warder huge

     Doth sprawl his ugly length on half-crunched bones,
     And terrifies the disembodied ghosts
     With never-ceasing bark.[11]

  Even if you can win your point and prove that these are mere 
stories and that nothing is left for the dead to fear, another 
fear steals upon you. For the fear of going to the underworld is 
equalled by the fear of going nowhere.
  In the face of these notions, which long-standing opinion has 
dinned in our ears, how can brave endurance of death be anything 
else than glorious, and fit to rank among the greatest accomplish-
ments of the human mind? For the mind will never rise to virtue 
if it believes that death is an evil; but it will so rise if it holds that 
death is a matter of indifference. It is not in the order of nature 
that a man shall proceed with a great heart to a destiny which he 
believes to be evil; he will go sluggishly and with reluctance. But 
nothing glorious can result from unwillingness and cowardice; 
virtue does nothing under compulsion.
  Besides, no deed that a man does is honourable unless he has 
devoted himself thereto and attended to it with all his heart, rebel-
ling against it with no portion of his being. When, however, a man 
goes to face an evil, either through fear of worse evils or in the 
hope of goods whose attainment is of sufficient moment to him 
that he can swallow the one evil which he must endure—in that 
case the judgment of the agent is drawn in two directions. On 
the one side is the motive which bids him carry out his purpose; 
on the other, the motive which restrains him and makes him flee 
from something which has aroused his apprehension or leads 
to danger. Hence he is torn in different directions; and if this 
148 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

happens, the glory of his act is gone. For virtue accomplishes its 
plans only when the spirit is in harmony with itself. There is no 
element of fear in any of its actions.

     Yield not to evils, but, still braver, go

     Where’er thy fortune shall allow.[12]

  You cannot “still braver go,” if you are persuaded that those 
things are the real evils. Root out this idea from your soul; oth-
erwise your apprehensions will remain undecided and will thus 
check the impulse to action. You will be pushed into that towards 
which you ought to advance like a soldier.
  Those of our school, it is true, would have men think that Zeno’s 
syllogism[13] is correct, but that the second[13] I mentioned, which 
is set up against his, is deceptive and wrong. But I for my part 
decline to reduce such questions to a matter of dialectical rules or 
to the subtleties of an utterly worn-out system. Away, I say, with 
all that sort of thing, which makes a man feel, when a question 
is propounded to him, that he is hemmed in, and forces him to 
admit a premiss, and then makes him say one thing in his answer 
when his real opinion is another.[14] When truth is at stake, we 
must act more frankly; and when fear is to be combated, we must 
act more bravely.
  Such questions, which the dialecticians involve in subtleties, I 
prefer to solve and weigh rationally, with the purpose of winning 
conviction and not of forcing the judgment.
  When a general is about to lead into action an army prepared to 
meet death for their wives and children, how will he exhort them 
to battle? I remind you of the Fabii,[15] who took upon a single 
clan a war which concerned the whole state. I point out to you 
the Lacedaemonians in position at the very pass of Thermopylae! 
They have no hope of victory, no hope of returning. The place 
where they stand is to be their tomb.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 149

  In what language do you encourage them to bar the way with 
their bodies and take upon themselves the ruin of their whole 
tribe, and to retreat from life rather than from their post? Shall 
you say: “That which is evil is not glorious; but death is glorious; 
therefore death is not an evil”? What a powerful discourse! After 
such words, who would hesitate to throw himself upon the serried 
spears of the foemen, and die in his tracks? But take Leonidas: 
how bravely did he address his men! He said: “Fellow-soldiers, let 
us to our breakfast, knowing that we shall sup in Hades!”[16] The 
food of these men did not grow lumpy in their mouths, or stick 
in their throats, or slip from their fingers; eagerly did they accept 
the invitation to breakfast, and to supper also!
  Think, too, of the famous Roman general;[17] his soldiers had 
been dispatched to seize a position, and when they were about to 
make their way through a huge army of the enemy, he addressed 
them with the words: “You must go now, fellow-soldiers, to yon-
der place, whence there is no ‘must’ about your returning!”
  You see, then, how straightforward and peremptory virtue is; 
but what man on earth can your deceptive logic make more cou-
rageous or more upright? Rather does it break the spirit, which 
should never be less straitened or forced to deal with petty and 
thorny problems than when some great work is being planned.
  It is not the Three Hundred[18]—it is all mankind that should be 
relieved of the fear of death. But how can you prove to all those 
men that death is no evil? How can you overcome the notions of 
all our past life—notions with which we are tinged from our very 
infancy? What succour can you discover for man’s helplessness? 
What can you say that will make men rush, burning with zeal, 
into the midst of danger? By what persuasive speech can you turn 
aside this universal feeling of fear, by what strength of wit can you 
turn aside the conviction of the human race which steadfastly 
opposes you? Do you propose to construct catchwords for me, 
150   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

or to string together petty syllogisms? It takes great weapons to 
strike down great monsters.
   You recall the fierce serpent in Africa, more frightful to the 
Roman legions than the war itself, and assailed in vain by arrows 
and slings; it could not be wounded even by “Pythius,”[19] since 
its huge size, and the toughness which matched its bulk, made 
spears, or any weapon hurled by the hand of man, glance off. It 
was finally destroyed by rocks equal in size to millstones. Are 
you, then, hurling petty weapons like yours even against death? 
Can you stop a lion’s charge by an awl?[20] Your arguments are 
indeed sharp; but there is nothing sharper than a stalk of grain. 
And certain arguments are rendered useless and unavailing by 
their very subtlety. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. One who incurs liability by taking upon himself the debt of another. It is 
   part of the process known as intercessio.
  2. Rather than mollis.
  3. Conditivum  (more frequently and properly conditorium) is a grim jest. 
   The word is mostly found in an adjectival sense applying to fruits and 
   grain stored for later use.
  4. Compare Arnold’s nineteenth-century definition of culture.
  5. Vergil, Aeneid, vi. 261.
  6. Frag. 196 von Arnim.
  7. Defined by the Greeks as “things which have no direct connexion either 
   with happiness or unhappiness.” See Cicero, De Finibus, iii. 50 ff.
  8. i.e., are “indifferent” (cf. § 14indifferentia  ac media dicuntur).
  9. Presumably D. Junius Brutus, who finally incurred the enmity of both 
   Octavian and Antony. He was ignominiously put to death by a Gaul while 
   fleeing to join M. Brutus in Macedonia.
10. media : a technical word in Stoic philosophy, meaning neither good or bad.
11. See Vergil, Aeneid, vi. 400 f. and viii. 296 f.
12. Vergil, Aeneid, vi. 95 f., the advice of the Sibyl to Aeneas.
13. Cf. §§ 9 and 10.
14. Cf. Ep. xlviii. 4 ff.
15. Cf. Livy, ii. 49. 1 familiam unam subisse civitatis onus.
16. Οὕτως ἀριστᾶτε ὡς ἐν ᾅδου δειπνήσοντες—quoted by Stobaeus, Plutarch, 
   and Diodorus. Cicero says (Tusc. i. 101) hodie apud inferos fortasse 
   cenabimus.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    151

17. Calpurnius, in Sicily, during the first Punic war. Cf. Livy, xxii. 60. 11.
18. The soldiers of Leonidas.
19. An especially large machine for assaulting walls; a nickname, like the 
   modern “Long Tom.”
20. Cf. Ep. lxxxv. 1 pudet in aciem descendere pro dis hominibusque susceptam 
   subula armatum.
                    LETTER 83
                On Drunkenness
                        A

You bid me give you an account of each separate day, and of the 
whole day too; so you must have a good opinion of me if you think 
that in these days of mine there is nothing to hide. At any rate, 
it is thus that we should live—as if we lived in plain sight of all 
men; and it is thus that we should think—as if there were someone 
who could look into our inmost souls; and there is one who can 
so look. For what avails it that something is hidden from man? 
Nothing is shut off from the sight of God. He is witness of our 
souls,[1] and he comes into the very midst of our thoughts—comes 
into them, I say, as one who may at any time depart.
  I shall therefore do as you bid, and shall gladly inform you by 
letter what I am doing, and in what sequence. I shall keep watch-
ing myself continually, and—a most useful habit—shall review 
each day.[2] For this is what makes us wicked: that no one of us 
looks back over his own life. Our thoughts are devoted only to 
what we are about to do. And yet our plans for the future always 
depend on the past.
  Today has been unbroken; no one has filched the slightest part 
of it from me. The whole time has been divided between rest and 
reading. A brief space has been given over to bodily exercise, and 
on this ground I can thank old age—my exercise costs very little 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 153

effort; as soon as I stir, I am tired. And weariness is the aim and 
end of exercise, no matter how strong one is.
  Do you ask who are my pacemakers? One is enough for me—
the slave Pharius, a pleasant fellow, as you know; but I shall 
exchange him for another. At my time of life I need one who is 
of still more tender years. Pharius, at any rate, says that he and I 
are at the same period of life; for we are both losing our teeth.[3] 
Yet even now I can scarcely follow his pace as he runs, and within 
a very short time I shall not be able to follow him at all; so you 
see what profit we get from daily exercise. Very soon does a wide 
interval open between two persons who travel different ways. My 
slave is climbing up at the very moment when I am coming down, 
and you surely know how much quicker the latter is. Nay, I was 
wrong; for now my life is not coming down; it is falling outright.
  Do you ask, for all that, how our race resulted today? We raced 
to a tie,[4]—something which rarely happens in a running contest. 
After tiring myself out in this way (for I cannot call it exercise), 
I took a cold bath; this, at my house, means just short of hot. I, 
the former cold-water enthusiast, who used to celebrate the new 
year by taking a plunge into the canal, who, just as naturally as 
I would set out to do some reading or writing, or to compose a 
speech, used to inaugurate the first of the year with a plunge into 
the Virgo aqueduct,[5] have changed my allegiance, first to the 
Tiber, and then to my favourite tank, which is warmed only by the 
sun, at times when I am most robust and when there is not a flaw 
in my bodily processes. I have very little energy left for bathing.
  After the bath, some stale bread and breakfast without a table; 
no need to wash the hands after such a meal. Then comes a very 
short nap. You know my habit; I avail myself of a scanty bit of 
sleep—unharnessing, as it were.[6] For I am satisfied if I can just 
stop staying awake. Sometimes I know that I have slept; at other 
times, I have a mere suspicion.
154 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  Lo, now the din of the Races sounds about me! My ears are 
smitten with sudden and general cheering. But this does not 
upset my thoughts or even break their continuity. I can endure an 
uproar with complete resignation. The medley of voices blended 
in one note sounds to me like the dashing of waves,[7] or like the 
wind that lashes the tree-tops, or like any other sound which 
conveys no meaning.
  What is it, then, you ask, to which I have been giving my atten-
tion? I will tell you, a thought sticks in my mind, left over from 
yesterday—namely, what men of the greatest sagacity have meant 
when they have offered the most trifling and intricate proofs for 
problems of the greatest importance—proofs which may be true, 
but none the less resemble fallacies.
  Zeno, that greatest of men, the revered founder of our brave and 
holy school of philosophy, wishes to discourage us from drunken-
ness. Listen, then, to his arguments proving that the good man 
will not get drunk: “No one entrusts a secret to a drunken man; 
but one will entrust a secret to a good man; therefore, the good 
man will not get drunk.”[8] Mark how ridiculous Zeno is made 
when we set up a similar syllogism in contrast with his. There 
are many, but one will be enough: “No one entrusts a secret to a 
man when he is asleep; but one entrusts a secret to a good man; 
therefore, the good man does not go to sleep.”[9]
  Posidonius pleads the cause of our master Zeno in the only 
possible way; but it cannot, I hold, be pleaded even in this way. 
For Posidonius maintains that the word “drunken” is used in two 
ways—in the one case of a man who is loaded with wine and has 
no control over himself; in the other, of a man who is accustomed 
to get drunk, and is a slave to the habit. Zeno, he says, meant the 
latter—the man who is accustomed to get drunk, not the man who 
is drunk; and no one would entrust to this person any secret, for 
it might be blabbed out when the man was in his cups.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 155

  This is a fallacy. For the first syllogism refers to him who is 
actually drunk and not to him who is about to get drunk. You 
will surely admit that there is a great difference between a man 
who is drunk and a drunkard. He who is actually drunk may be in 
this state for the first time and may not have the habit, while the 
drunkard is often free from drunkenness. I therefore interpret the 
word in its usual meaning, especially since the syllogism is set up 
by a man who makes a business of the careful use of words, and 
who weighs his language. Moreover, if this is what Zeno meant, 
and what he wished it to mean to us, he was trying to avail himself 
of an equivocal word in order to work in a fallacy; and no man 
ought to do this when truth is the object of inquiry.
  But let us admit, indeed, that he meant what Posidonius says; 
even so, the conclusion is false, that secrets are not entrusted to an 
habitual drunkard. Think how many soldiers who are not always 
sober have been entrusted by a general or a captain or a centurion 
with messages which might not be divulged! With regard to the 
notorious plot to murder Gaius Caesar—I mean the Caesar who 
conquered Pompey and got control of the state—Tillius Cim-
ber was trusted with it no less than Gaius Cassius. Now Cassius 
throughout his life drank water; while Tillius Cimber was a sot 
as well as a brawler. Cimber himself alluded to this fact, saying: 
“I carry a master? I cannot carry my liquor!”
  So let each one call to mind those who, to his knowledge, can 
be ill trusted with wine, but well trusted with the spoken word; 
and yet one case occurs to my mind, which I shall relate, lest it 
fall into oblivion. For life should be provided with conspicuous 
illustrations. Let us not always be harking back to the dim past.
  Lucius Piso, the director of Public Safety at Rome, was drunk 
from the very time of his appointment. He used to spend the 
greater part of the night at banquets, and would sleep until noon. 
That was the way he spent his morning hours. Nevertheless, 
156 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

he applied himself most diligently to his official duties, which 
included the guardianship of the city. Even the sainted Augustus 
trusted him with secret orders when he placed him in command 
of Thrace.[10] Piso conquered that country. Tiberius, too, trusted 
him when he took his holiday in Campania, leaving behind him 
in the city many a critical matter that aroused both suspicion 
and hatred.
  I fancy that it was because Piso’s drunkenness turned out well 
for the Emperor that he appointed to the office of city prefect Cos-
sus, a man of authority and balance, but so soaked and steeped in 
drink that once, at a meeting of the Senate, whither he had come 
after banqueting, he was overcome by a slumber from which he 
could not be roused, and had to be carried home. It was to this 
man that Tiberius sent many orders, written in his own hand—
orders which he believed he ought not to trust even to the officials 
of his household. Cossus never let a single secret slip out, whether 
personal or public.
  So let us abolish all such harangues as this: “No man in the 
bonds of drunkenness has power over his soul. As the very vats 
are burst by new wine, and as the dregs at the bottom are raised 
to the surface by the strength of the fermentation; so, when the 
wine effervesces, whatever lies hidden below is brought up and 
made visible. As a man overcome by liquor cannot keep down his 
food when he has over-indulged in wine, so he cannot keep back 
a secret either. He pours forth impartially both his own secrets 
and those of other persons.”
  This, of course, is what commonly happens, but so does this—
that we take counsel on serious subjects with those whom we 
know to be in the habit of drinking freely. Therefore this propo-
sition, which is laid down in the guise of a defence of Zeno’s 
syllogism, is false—that secrets are not entrusted to the habitual 
drunkard.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 157

  How much better it is to arraign drunkenness frankly and to 
expose its vices! For even the middling good man avoids them, 
not to mention the perfect sage, who is satisfied with slaking his 
thirst; the sage, even if now and then he is led on by good cheer 
which, for a friend’s sake, is carried somewhat too far, yet always 
stops short of drunkenness.
  We shall investigate later the question whether the mind of the 
sage is upset by too much wine and commits follies like those of 
the toper; but meanwhile, if you wish to prove that a good man 
ought not to get drunk, why work it out by logic? Show how base it 
is to pour down more liquor than one can carry, and not to know 
the capacity of one’s own stomach; show how often the drunkard 
does things which make him blush when he is sober; state that 
drunkenness[11] is nothing but a condition of insanity purposely 
assumed. Prolong the drunkard’s condition to several days; will 
you have any doubt about his madness? Even as it is, the madness 
is no less; it merely lasts a shorter time.
  Think of Alexander of Macedon,[12] who stabbed Clitus, his 
dearest and most loyal friend, at a banquet; after Alexander 
understood what he had done, he wished to die, and assuredly 
he ought to have died.
  Drunkenness kindles and discloses every kind of vice, and 
removes the sense of shame that veils our evil undertakings.[13] 
For more men abstain from forbidden actions because they are 
ashamed of sinning than because their inclinations are good.
  When the strength of wine has become too great and has gained 
control over the mind, every lurking evil comes forth from its 
hiding-place. Drunkenness does not create vice, it merely brings 
it into view; at such times the lustful man does not wait even for 
the privacy of a bedroom, but without postponement gives free 
play to the demands of his passions; at such times the unchaste 
man proclaims and publishes his malady; at such times your 
158 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

cross-grained fellow does not restrain his tongue or his hand. 
The haughty man increases his arrogance, the ruthless man his 
cruelty, the slanderer his spitefulness. Every vice is given free play 
and comes to the front.
  Besides, we forget who we are, we utter words that are halting 
and poorly enunciated, the glance is unsteady, the step falters, 
the head is dizzy, the very ceiling moves about as if a cyclone 
were whirling the whole house, and the stomach suffers torture 
when the wine generates gas and causes our very bowels to swell. 
However, at the time, these troubles can be endured, so long as 
the man retains his natural strength; but what can he do when 
sleep impairs his powers, and when that which was drunkenness 
becomes indigestion?
  Think of the calamities caused by drunkenness in a nation! This 
evil has betrayed to their enemies the most spirited and warlike 
races; this evil has made breaches in walls defended by the stub-
born warfare of many years; this evil has forced under alien sway 
peoples who were utterly unyielding and defiant of the yoke; this 
evil has conquered by the wine-cup those who in the field were 
invincible.
  Alexander, whom I have just mentioned, passed through his 
many marches, his many battles, his many winter campaigns 
(through which he worked his way by overcoming disadvantages 
of time or place), the many rivers which flowed from unknown 
sources, and the many seas, all in safety; it was intemperance in 
drinking that laid him low, and the famous death-dealing bowl 
of Hercules.[14]
  What glory is there in carrying much liquor? When you have 
won the prize, and the other banqueters, sprawling asleep or vom-
iting, have declined your challenge to still other toasts; when you 
are the last survivor of the revels; when you have vanquished 
every one by your magnificent show of prowess and there is no 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 159

man who has proved himself of so great capacity as you, you are 
vanquished by the cask.
  Mark Antony was a great man, a man of distinguished ability; 
but what ruined him and drove him into foreign habits and un-
Roman vices, if it was not drunkenness and—no less potent than 
wine—love of Cleopatra? This it was that made him an enemy of 
the state; this it was that rendered him no match for his enemies; 
this it was that made him cruel, when as he sat at table the heads 
of the leaders of the state were brought in; when amid the most 
elaborate feasts and royal luxury he would identify the faces and 
hands of men whom he had proscribed;[15] when, though heavy 
with wine, he yet thirsted for blood. It was intolerable that he was 
getting drunk while he did such things; how much more intoler-
able that he did these things while actually drunk!
  Cruelty usually follows wine-bibbing; for a man’s soundness 
of mind is corrupted and made savage. Just as a lingering illness 
makes men querulous and irritable and drives them wild at the 
least crossing of their desires, so continued bouts of drunkenness 
bestialize the soul. For when people are often beside themselves, 
the habit of madness lasts on, and the vices which liquor gener-
ated retain their power even when the liquor is gone.
  Therefore you should state why the wise man ought not to get 
drunk. Explain by facts, and not by mere words, the hideousness 
of the thing, and its haunting evils. Do that which is easiest of 
all—namely, demonstrate that what men call pleasures are pun-
ishments as soon as they have exceeded due bounds. For if you try 
to prove that the wise man can souse himself with much wine and 
yet keep his course straight, even though he be in his cups, you 
may go on to infer by syllogisms that he will not die if he swallows 
poison, that he will not sleep if he takes a sleeping-potion, that 
he will not vomit and reject the matter which clogs his stomach 
when you give him hellebore.[16] But, when a man’s feet totter and 
160   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

his tongue is unsteady, what reason have you for believing that he 
is half sober and half drunk? Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Cf. Ep. xli. 2 sacer intra nos spiritus, . . . malorum bonorumque nostrorum 
   observator et custos.
  2. Cf. Ep. i. 4 ratio constat inpensae (referring to his attempt to employ his 
   time profitably).
  3. See Ep. xii. 3 for a similar witticism.
  4. Hieran  (coronam), as Lipsius thinks, when the result was doubtful, the 
   garland was offered to the gods. From the Greek ἰερός, sacred.
  5. Constructed by Marcus Agrippa; now the fountain of Trevi.
  6. The same word is used by Seneca inDe  Tranq. An. xvii. 7 quidam medio 
   die interiunxerunt et in postmeridianas horas aliquid levioris operae 
   distulerunt.
  7. Cf. Ep. lvi. 3 istum fremitum non magis curo quam fluctum aut deiectum 
   aquae.
  8. Zeno, Frag. 229 von Arnim—quoting also Philo’s εἰ τῷ μεθύοντι οὐκ 
   ἄν τις εὐλόγως λόγον ἀπόρρητον παρακατάθοιτο . . . οὐκ ἄρα μεθύει ὸ 
   ἀστεῖος.
  9. Cf. Ep. xlix. 8 quod non perdidisti, habes; cornua autem non perdidisti; 
   cornua ergo habes—and the syllogisms given in Ep. xlviii.
10. In 11 B.C., when the Thracians were attacking Macedonia. The campaign 
   lasted for three years, and Piso was rewarded with a triumph at its close.
11. Like anger, which was interpreted by the ancients as “short-lived 
   madness.”
12. For a dramatic account of the murder see Plutarch’s Alexander, ch. 51.
13. This is the firm conviction of Seneca, himself a most temperate man. §§ 
   14 and 15 admit that natural genius may triumph over drunkenness; § 17 
   may allow (with Chrysippus) a certain amount of hilarity; but the general 
   conclusion is obvious.
14. Lipsius quotes Athenaeus as saying that Boeotian silver cups of large size 
   were so called because the Boeotian Hercules drank from them; Servius, 
   however, on Verg. Aen. viii. 278, declared that the name was derived 
   from the large wooden bowl brought by Hercules to Italy and used for 
   sacrificial purposes.
15. “Antony gave orders to those that were to kill Cicero, to cut off his head 
   and right hand . . . ; and, when they were brought before him, he regarded 
   them joyfully, actually bursting out more than once into laughter, and 
   when he had satiated himself with the sight of them, ordered them to be 
   hung up . . . in the forum” (Clough’s translation of Plutarch’s Antony, 
   p. 172).
15. A plant which possessed cathartic properties and was widely used by the 
   ancients. It was also applied in cases of mental derangement. The native 
   Latin term is veratrum.
 THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS


           A Guide to the Good Life: 
       A Short Interview Excerpt From 
               William B. Irvine


William B. Irvine is professor of philosophy at Wright State Uni-
versity in Dayton, Ohio. He is the author of A Guide to the Good 
Life: The Ancient Art of Stoic. For more on his life and writings, 
visit his author website at WilliamBIrvine.com.

Who do you consider the most influential stoic philosopher 
to you personally? Why? Do you have a favorite stoic quote?
  I like all the Roman Stoics, but for different reasons. When I 
am dealing on an ongoing basis with annoying people, I turn to 
Marcus Aurelius. As Roman emperor, he had lots of experience 
dealing with annoying people. When I have an important deci-
sion to make, I turn to Epictetus and remind myself that there are 
things I can control and things I can’t. When I find myself lusting 
for consumer goods, I turn to Musonius Rufus, who managed 
quite well on being banished to the desolate island of Gyaros. And 
when I am feeling sorry for myself, I turn to Seneca. He reminds 
us that no matter how bad things are, they could be much worse.
  As far as favorite quotes are concerned, I have a hundred of 
them. The Roman Stoics are wonderfully quotable. This one 
comes from Marcus Aurelius: “The art of living is more like wres-
tling than dancing.”
                    LETTER 84
              On Gathering Ideas[1]
                        A

The journeys to which you refer—journeys that shake the lazi-
ness out of my system—I hold to be profitable both for my health 
and for my studies. You see why they benefit my health: since my 
passion for literature makes me lazy and careless about my body, 
I can take exercise by deputy; as for my studies, I shall show you 
why my journeys help them, for I have not stopped my reading in 
the slightest degree. And reading, I hold, is indispensable—pri-
marily, to keep me from being satisfied with myself alone, and 
besides, after I have learned what others have found out by their 
studies, to enable me to pass judgment on their discoveries and 
reflect upon discoveries that remain to be made. Reading nour-
ishes the mind and refreshes it when it is wearied with study; 
nevertheless, this refreshment is not obtained without study.
  We ought not to confine ourselves either to writing or to 
reading; the one, continuous writing, will cast a gloom over our 
strength, and exhaust it; the other will make our strength flabby 
and watery. It is better to have recourse to them alternately, and 
to blend one with the other, so that the fruits of one’s reading may 
be reduced to concrete form by the pen.
  We should follow, men say, the example of the bees, who flit 
about and cull the flowers that are suitable for producing honey, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 163

and then arrange and assort in their cells all that they have brought 
in; these bees, as our Vergil says,

     pack close the flowing honey,

     And swell their cells with nectar sweet.[2]

  It is not certain whether the juice which they obtain from the 
flowers forms at once into honey, or whether they change that 
which they have gathered into this delicious object by blending 
something therewith and by a certain property of their breath. 
For some authorities believe that bees do not possess the art of 
making honey, but only of gathering it; and they say that in India 
honey has been found on the leaves of certain reeds, produced 
by a dew peculiar to that climate, or by the juice of the reed itself, 
which has an unusual sweetness, and richness.[3] And in our own 
grasses too, they say, the same quality exists, although less clear 
and less evident; and a creature born to fulfil such a function 
could hunt it out and collect it. Certain others maintain that the 
materials which the bees have culled from the most delicate of 
blooming and flowering plants is transformed into this peculiar 
substance by a process of preserving and careful storing away, 
aided by what might be called fermentation—whereby separate 
elements are united into one substance.
  But I must not be led astray into another subject than that 
which we are discussing. We also, I say, ought to copy these bees, 
and sift whatever we have gathered from a varied course of read-
ing, for such things are better preserved if they are kept separate; 
then, by applying the supervising care with which our nature has 
endowed us—in other words, our natural gifts—we should so 
blend those several flavours into one delicious compound that, 
even though it betrays its origin, yet it nevertheless is clearly a 
different thing from that whence it came. This is what we see 
nature doing in our own bodies without any labour on our part; 
164 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

the food we have eaten, as long as it retains its original quality 
and floats, in our stomachs as an undiluted mass, is a burden;[4] 
but it passes into tissue and blood only when it has been changed 
from its original form. So it is with the food which nourishes 
our higher nature—we should see to it that whatever we have 
absorbed should not be allowed to remain unchanged, or it will 
be no part of us.
  We must digest it; otherwise it will merely enter the memory 
and not the reasoning power. Let us loyally welcome such foods 
and make them our own, so that something that is one may be 
formed out of many elements, just as one number is formed of 
several elements whenever, by our reckoning, lesser sums, each 
different from the others, are brought together. This is what our 
mind should do: it should hide away all the materials by which it 
has been aided, and bring to light only what it has made of them.
  Even if there shall appear in you a likeness to him who, by rea-
son of your admiration, has left a deep impress upon you, I would 
have you resemble him as a child resembles his father, and not 
as a picture resembles its original; for a picture is a lifeless thing.
  “What,” you say, “will it not be seen whose style you are imi-
tating, whose method of reasoning, whose pungent sayings?” I 
think that sometimes it is impossible for it to be seen who is being 
imitated, if the copy is a true one; for a true copy stamps its own 
form upon all the features which it has drawn from what we may 
call the original, in such a way that they are combined into a unity.
  Do you not see how many voices there are in a chorus? Yet 
out of the many only one voice results. In that chorus one voice 
takes the tenor another the bass, another the baritone. There are 
women, too, as well as men, and the flute is mingled with them. 
In that chorus the voices of the individual singers are hidden; 
what we hear is the voices of all together.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 165

  To be sure, I am referring to the chorus which the old-time 
philosophers knew; in our present-day exhibitions[5] we have a 
larger number of singers than there used to be spectators in the 
theatres of old. All the aisles are filled with rows of singers; brass 
instruments surround the auditorium; the stage resounds with 
flutes and instruments of every description; and yet from the 
discordant sounds a harmony is produced.
  I would have my mind of such a quality as this; it should be 
equipped with many arts, many precepts, and patterns of conduct 
taken from many epochs of history; but all should blend harmo-
niously into one.
  “How,” you ask, “can this be accomplished?” By constant effort, 
and by doing nothing without the approval of reason. And if 
you are willing to hear her voice, she will say to you: “Abandon 
those pursuits which heretofore have caused you to run hither and 
thither. Abandon riches, which are either a danger or a burden 
to the possessor. Abandon the pleasures of the body and of the 
mind; they only soften and weaken you. Abandon your quest for 
office; it is a swollen, idle, and empty thing, a thing that has no 
goal, as anxious to see no one outstrip it as to see no one at its 
heels. It is afflicted with envy, and in truth with a twofold envy; 
and you see how wretched a man’s plight is if he who is the object 
of envy feels envy also.”
  Do you behold yonder homes of the great, yonder thresh-
olds uproarious with the brawling of those who would pay their 
respects? They have many an insult[6] for you as you enter the 
door, and still more after you have entered. Pass by the steps that 
mount to rich men’s houses, and the porches rendered hazardous 
by the huge throng; for there you will be standing, not merely on 
the edge of a precipice but also on slippery ground. Instead of this, 
direct your course hither to wisdom, and seek her ways, which 
are ways of surpassing peace and plenty.
166   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

   Whatever seems conspicuous in the affairs of men—however 
petty it may really be and prominent only by contrast with the 
lowest objects—is nevertheless approached by a difficult and toil-
some pathway. It is a rough road that leads to the heights of great-
ness; but if you desire to scale this peak, which lies far above the 
range of Fortune, you will indeed look down from above upon all 
that men regard as most lofty, but none the less you can proceed 
to the top over level ground. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. A considerable part of this letter is found in the preface to the Saturnalia of 
  Macrobius, without any acknowledgement of indebtedness.
2. Aeneid, i. 432 f.
3. Cf. mel in harundinibus collectum (from India) in Pliny, N. H. xii. 32 
  (Summers).
4. The same figure is used in reference to reading, in Ep. ii. 2 f.,non  prodest 
  cibus nec corpori accedit, qui statim sumptus emittitur, etc.
5. Commissio  means an entertainment, or a concert; cf. Pliny, Panegyric 54, 
  ludis et commissionibus.
6. For such treatment cf. Juvenal iii. 152 f.–
      Nil habet infelix paupertas durius in se
      Quam quod ridiculos homines facit, etc.
                   LETTER 85
           On Some Vain Syllogisms
                       A

I had been inclined to spare you, and had omitted any knotty 
problems that still remained undiscussed; I was satisfied to give 
you a sort of taste of the views held by the men of our school, 
who desire to prove that virtue is of itself sufficiently capable 
of rounding out the happy life. But now you bid me include the 
entire bulk either of our own syllogisms or of those which have 
been devised[1] by other schools for the purpose of belittling us. 
If I shall be willing to do this, the result will be a book, instead of 
a letter. And I declare again and again that I take no pleasure in 
such proofs. I am ashamed to enter the arena and undertake battle 
on behalf of gods and men armed only with an awl.[2]
  “He that possesses prudence is also self-restrained; he that pos-
sesses self-restraint is also unwavering; he that is unwavering is 
unperturbed; he that is unperturbed is free from sadness; he that 
is free from sadness is happy. Therefore, the prudent man is happy, 
and prudence is sufficient to constitute the happy life.”
  Certain of the Peripatetics[3] reply to this syllogism by inter-
preting “unperturbed,” “unwavering,” and “free from sadness” in 
such a way as to make “unperturbed” mean one who is rarely 
perturbed and only to a moderate degree, and not one who is 
never perturbed. Likewise, they say that a person is called “free 
from sadness” who is not subject to sadness, one who falls into 
168 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

this objectionable state not often nor in too great a degree. It is 
not, they say, the way of human nature that a man’s spirit should 
be exempt from sadness, or that the wise man is not overcome 
by grief but is merely touched by it, and other arguments of this 
sort, all in accordance with the teachings of their school.
  They do not abolish the passions in this way; they only moder-
ate them. But how petty is the superiority which we attribute to 
the wise man, if he is merely braver than the most craven, hap-
pier than the most dejected, more self-controlled than the most 
unbridled, and greater than the lowliest! Would Ladas boast his 
swiftness in running by comparing himself with the halt and the 
weak?

     For she could skim the topmost blades of corn

     And touch them not, nor bruise the tender ears;
     Or travel over seas, well-poised above
     The swollen floods, nor dip her flying feet
     In ocean’s waters.[4]

  This is speed estimated by its own standard, not the kind which 
wins praise by comparison with that which is slowest. Would you 
call a man well who has a light case of fever? No, for good health 
does not mean moderate illness.
  They say, “The wise man is called unperturbed in the sense in 
which pomegranates are called mellow—not that there is no hard-
ness at all in their seeds, but that the hardness is less than it was 
before.” That view is wrong; for I am not referring to the gradual 
weeding out of evils in a good man, but to the complete absence 
of evils; there should be in him no evils at all, not even any small 
ones. For if there are any, they will grow, and as they grow will 
hamper him. Just as a large and complete cataract[5] wholly blinds 
the eyes, so a medium-sized cataract dulls their vision.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 169

  If by your definition the wise man has any passions whatever, 
his reason will be no match for them and will be carried swiftly 
along, as it were, on a rushing stream—particularly if you assign 
to him, not one passion with which he must wrestle, but all the 
passions. And a throng of such, even though they be moderate, 
can affect him more than the violence of one powerful passion.
  He has a craving for money, although in a moderate degree. He 
has ambition, but it is not yet fully aroused. He has a hot temper, 
but it can be appeased. He has inconstancy, but not the kind that 
is very capricious or easily set in motion. He has lust, but not the 
violent kind. We could deal better with a person who possessed 
one full-fledged vice, than with one who possessed all the vices, 
but none of them in extreme form.
  Again, it makes no difference how great the passion is; no mat-
ter what its size may be, it knows no obedience, and does not 
welcome advice.[6] Just as no animal, whether wild or tamed and 
gentle, obeys reason, since nature made it deaf to advice; so the 
passions do not follow or listen, however slight they are. Tigers 
and lions never put off their wildness; they sometimes moderate 
it, and then, when you are least prepared, their softened fierceness 
is roused to madness. Vices are never genuinely tamed.
  Again, if reason prevails, the passions will not even get a start; 
but if they get under way against the will of reason, they will 
maintain themselves against the will of reason. For it is easier 
to stop them in the beginning than to control them when they 
gather force. This half-way ground is accordingly misleading and 
useless; it is to be regarded just as the declaration that we ought 
to be “moderately” insane, or “moderately” ill.
  Virtue alone possesses moderation; the evils that afflict the 
mind do not admit of moderation. You can more easily remove 
than control them. Can one doubt that the vices of the human 
mind, when they have become chronic and callous (“diseases” we 
170 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

call them), are beyond control, as, for example, greed, cruelty, and 
wantonness? Therefore the passions also are beyond control; for 
it is from the passions that we pass over to the vices.
  Again, if you grant any privileges to sadness, fear, desire, and 
all the other wrong impulses, they will cease to lie within our 
jurisdiction. And why? Simply because the means of arousing 
them lie outside our own power. They will accordingly increase in 
proportion as the causes by which they are stirred up are greater 
or less. Fear will grow to greater proportions, if that which causes 
the terror is seen to be of greater magnitude or in closer proxim-
ity; and desire will grow keener in proportion as the hope of a 
greater gain has summoned it to action.
  If the existence of the passions is not in our own control, nei-
ther is the extent of their power; for if you once permit them to 
get a start, they will increase along with their causes, and they 
will be of whatever extent they shall grow to be. Moreover, no 
matter how small these vices are, they grow greater. That which 
is harmful never keeps within bounds. No matter how trifling 
diseases are at the beginning, they creep on apace; and sometimes 
the slightest augmentation of disease lays low the enfeebled body!
  But what folly it is, when the beginnings of certain things are 
situated outside our control, to believe that their endings are 
within our control! How have I the power to bring something to 
a close, when I have not had the power to check it at the begin-
ning? For it is easier to keep a thing out than to keep it under 
after you have let it in.
  Some men have made a distinction as follows, saying: “If a man 
has self-control and wisdom, he is indeed at peace as regards the 
attitude and habit of his mind, but not as regards the outcome. 
For, as far as his habit of mind is concerned, he is not perturbed, 
or saddened, or afraid; but there are many extraneous causes 
which strike him and bring perturbation upon him.”
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 171

  What they mean to say is this: “So-and-so is indeed not a man 
of an angry disposition, but still he sometimes gives way to anger,” 
and “He is not, indeed, inclined to fear, but still he sometimes 
experiences fear”; in other words, he is free from the fault, but is 
not free from the passion of fear. If, however, fear is once given 
an entrance, it will by frequent use pass over into a vice;[7] and 
anger, once admitted into the mind, will alter the earlier habit of 
a mind that was formerly free from anger.
  Besides, if the wise man, instead of despising all causes that 
come from without, ever fears anything, when the time arrives for 
him to go bravely to meet the spear, or the flames, on behalf of his 
country, his laws, and his liberty, he will go forth reluctantly and 
with flagging spirit. Such inconsistency of mind, however, does 
not suit the character of a wise man.
  Then, again, we should see to it that two principles which ought 
to be tested separately should not be confused. For the conclusion 
is reached independently that that alone is good which is honour-
able, and again independently the conclusion that virtue is suf-
ficient for the happy life. If that alone is good which is honourable, 
everyone agrees that virtue is sufficient for the purpose of living 
happily; but, on the contrary, if virtue alone makes men happy, it 
will not be conceded that that alone is good which is honourable.
  Xenocrates[8] and Speusippus[8] hold that a man can become 
happy even by virtue alone, not, however, that that which is hon-
ourable is the only good. Epicurus also decides[9] that one who 
possesses virtue is happy, but that virtue of itself is not sufficient 
for the happy life, because the pleasure that results from virtue, 
and not virtue itself, makes one happy. This is a futile distinction. 
For the same philosopher declares that virtue never exists without 
pleasure; and therefore, if virtue is always connected with pleasure 
and always inseparable therefrom, virtue is of itself sufficient. For 
172 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

virtue keeps pleasure in its company, and does not exist without 
it, even when alone.
  But it is absurd to say that a man will be happy by virtue alone, 
and yet not absolutely happy. I cannot discover how that may be, 
since the happy life contains in itself a good that is perfect and 
cannot be excelled, If a man has this good, life is completely happy.
  Now if the life of the gods contains nothing greater or better, 
and the happy life is divine, then there is no further height to 
which a man can be raised.
  Also, if the happy life is in want of nothing, then every happy 
life is perfect; it is happy and at the same time most happy. Have 
you any doubt that the happy life is the Supreme Good? Accord-
ingly, if it possesses the Supreme Good, it is supremely happy. Just 
as the Supreme Good does not admit of increase (for what will be 
superior to that which is supreme?), exactly so the happy life can-
not be increased either; for it is not without the Supreme Good. 
If then you bring in one man who is “happier” than another, you 
will also bring in one who is “much happier”; you will then be 
making countless distinctions in the Supreme Good; although I 
understand the Supreme Good to be that good which admits of 
no degree above itself.
  If one person is less happy than another, it follows that he 
eagerly desires the life of that other and happier man in prefer-
ence to his own. But the happy man prefers no other man’s life to 
his own. Either of these two things is incredible: that there should 
be anything left for a happy man to wish for in preference to what 
is, or that he should not prefer the thing which is better than what 
he already has. For certainly, the more prudent he is, the more 
he will strive after the best, and he will desire to attain it by every 
possible means. But how can one be happy who is still able, or 
rather who is still bound, to crave something else?
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 173

  I will tell you what is the source of this error: men do not 
understand that the happy life is a unit; for it is its essence, and 
not its extent, that establishes such a life on the noblest Plane. 
Hence there is complete equality between the life that is long and 
the life that is short, between that which is spread out and that 
which is confined, between that whose influence is felt in many 
places and in many directions, and that which is restricted to one 
interest. Those who reckon life by number, or by measure, or by 
parts, rob it of its distinctive quality. Now, in the happy life, what 
is the distinctive quality? It is its fulness.[10]
   Satiety, I think, is the limit to our eating or drinking. A eats 
more and B eats less; what difference does it make? Each is now 
sated. Or A drinks more and B drinks less; what difference does 
it make? Each is no longer thirsty, Again, A lives for many years 
and B for fewer; no matter, if only A’s many years have brought 
as much happiness as B’s few years. He whom you maintain to 
be “less happy” is not happy; the word admits of no diminution.
  “He who is brave is fearless; he who is fearless is free from sad-
ness; he who is free from sadness is happy.” It is our own school 
which has framed this syllogism; they attempt to refute it by this 
answer, namely, that we Stoics are assuming as admitted a premiss 
which is false and distinctly controverted—that the brave man is 
fearless. “What!” they say, “will the brave man have no fear of evils 
that threaten him? That would be the condition of a madman, a 
lunatic, rather than of a brave man. The brave man will, it is true, 
feel fear in only a very slight degree; but he is not absolutely free 
from fear.”
  Now those who assert this are doubling back to their old argu-
ment, in that they regard vices of less degree as equivalent to 
virtues.[11] For indeed the man who does feel fear, though he feels 
it rather seldom and to a slight degree, is not free from wicked-
ness, but is merely troubled by it in a milder form. “Not so,” is the 
174 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

reply, “for I hold that a man is mad if he does not fear evils which 
hang over his head.” What you say is perfectly true, if the things 
which threaten are really evils; but if he knows that they are not 
evils and believes that the only evil is baseness, he will be bound 
to face dangers without anxiety and to despise things which other 
men cannot help fearing. Or, if it is the characteristic of a fool and 
a madman not to fear evils, then the wiser a man is the more he 
will fear such things!
  “It is the doctrine of you Stoics, then,” they reply, “that a brave 
man will expose himself to dangers.” By no means; he will merely 
not fear them, though he will avoid them. It is proper for him 
to be careful, but not to be fearful.[12] “What then? Is he not to 
fear death, imprisonment, burning, and all the other missiles of 
Fortune?” Not at all; for he knows that they are not evils, but only 
seem to be. He reckons all these things as the bugbears of man’s 
existence.
  Paint him a picture of slavery, lashes, chains, want, mutila-
tion by disease or by torture—or anything else you may care to 
mention; he will count all such things as terrors caused by the 
derangement of the mind. These things are only to be feared by 
those who are fearful. Or do you regard as an evil that to which 
some day we may be compelled to resort of our own free will?
  What then, you ask, is an evil? It is the yielding to those things 
which are called evils; it is the surrendering of one’s liberty into 
their control, when really we ought to suffer all things in order 
to preserve this liberty. Liberty is lost unless we despise those 
things which put the yoke upon our necks. If men knew what 
bravery was, they would have no doubts as to what a brave man’s 
conduct should be. For bravery is not thoughtless rashness, or 
love of danger, or the courting of fear-inspiring objects; it is the 
knowledge which enables us to distinguish between that which 
is evil and that which is not.[13] Bravery takes the greatest care of 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 175

itself, and likewise endures with the greatest patience all things 
which have a false appearance of being evil.
  “What then?” is the query; “if the sword is brandished over 
your brave man’s neck, if he is pierced in this place and in that 
continually, if he sees his entrails in his lap, if he is tortured again 
after being kept waiting in order that he may thus feel the torture 
more keenly, and if the blood flows afresh out of bowels where 
it has but lately ceased to flow, has he no fear? Shall you say that 
he has felt no pain either?” Yes, he has felt pain; for no human 
virtue can rid itself of feelings. But he has no fear; unconquered 
he looks down from a lofty height upon his sufferings. Do you 
ask me what spirit animates him in these circumstances? It is the 
spirit of one who is comforting a sick friend.
  “That which is evil does harm; that which does harm makes 
a man worse. But pain and poverty do not make a man worse; 
therefore they are not evils.” “Your proposition,” says the objec-
tor, “is wrong; for what harms one does not necessarily make one 
worse. The storm and the squall work harm to the pilot, but they 
do not make a worse pilot of him for all that.”
  Certain of the Stoic school reply to this argument as follows: 
“The pilot becomes a worse pilot because of storms or squalls, 
inasmuch as he cannot carry out his purpose and hold to his 
course; as far as his art is concerned, he becomes no worse a 
pilot, but in his work he does become worse.” To this the Peri-
patetics retort: “Therefore, poverty will make even the wise man 
worse, and so will pain, and so will anything else of that sort. For 
although those things will not rob him of his virtue, yet they will 
hinder the work of virtue.”
  This would be a correct statement, were it not for the fact that 
the pilot and the wise man are two different kinds of person. The 
wise man’s purpose in conducting his life is not to accomplish at 
all hazards what he tries, but to do all things rightly; the pilot’s 
176 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

purpose, however, is to bring his ship into port at all hazards. The 
arts are handmaids;[14] they must accomplish what they promise 
to do. But wisdom is mistress and ruler. The arts render a slave’s 
service to life; wisdom issues the commands.
  For myself, I maintain that a different answer should be given: 
that the pilot’s art is never made worse by the storm, nor the appli-
cation of his art either. The pilot has promised you, not a prosper-
ous voyage, but a serviceable performance of his task—that is, an 
expert knowledge of steering a ship. And the more he is hampered 
by the stress of fortune, so much the more does his knowledge 
become apparent. He who has been able to say, “Neptune, you 
shall never sink this ship except on an even keel,”[15] has fulfilled 
the requirements of his art; the storm does not interfere with the 
pilot’s work, but only with his success.
  “What then,” you say, “is not a pilot harmed by any circum-
stance which does not permit him to make port, frustrates all 
his efforts, and either carries him out to sea, or holds the ship in 
irons, or strips her masts?” No, it does not harm him as a pilot, 
but only as a voyager; otherwise, he is no pilot. It is indeed so 
far from hindering the pilot’s art that it even exhibits the art; for 
anyone, in the words of the proverb, is a pilot on a calm sea. These 
mishaps obstruct the voyage but not the steersman qua steersman.
  A pilot has a double rôle: one he shares with all his fellow-
passengers, for he also is a passenger; the other is peculiar to 
him, for he is the pilot. The storm harms him as a passenger, but 
not as a pilot.
  Again, the pilot’s art is another’s good—it concerns his pas-
sengers just as a physician’s art concerns his patients. But the wise 
man’s good is a common good—it belongs both to those in whose 
company he lives, and to himself also. Hence our pilot may per-
haps be harmed, since his services, which have been promised to 
others, are hindered by the storm; but the wise man is not harmed 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 177

by poverty, or by pain, or by any other of life’s storms. For all his 
functions are not checked, but only those which pertain to oth-
ers; he himself is always in action, and is greatest in performance 
at the very time when fortune has blocked his way. For then he 
is actually engaged in the business of wisdom; and this wisdom 
I have declared already to be, both the good of others, and also 
his own.
  Besides, he is not prevented from helping others, even at the 
time when constraining circumstances press him down. Because 
of his poverty he is prevented from showing how the State should 
be handled; but he teaches, none the less, how poverty should be 
handled. His work goes on throughout his whole life.
  Thus no fortune, no external circumstance, can shut off the 
wise man from action. For the very thing which engages his atten-
tion prevents him from attending to other things. He is ready for 
either outcome: if it brings goods, he controls them; if evils, he 
conquers them. 
  So thoroughly, I mean, has he schooled himself that he makes 
manifest his virtue in prosperity as well as in adversity, and keeps 
his eyes on virtue itself, not on the objects with which virtue deals. 
Hence neither poverty, nor pain, nor anything else that deflects 
the inexperienced and drives them headlong, restrains him from 
his course.
  Do you suppose that he is weighed down by evils? He makes 
use of them. It was not of ivory only that Phidias knew how to 
make statues; he also made statues of bronze. If you had given 
him marble, or a still meaner material, he would have made of it 
the best statue that the material would permit. So the wise man 
will develop virtue, if he may, in the midst of wealth, or, if not, in 
poverty; if possible, in his own country—if not, in exile; if pos-
sible, as a commander—if not, as a common soldier; if possible, 
178   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

in sound health—if not, enfeebled. Whatever fortune he finds, he 
will accomplish therefrom something noteworthy.
   Animal-tamers are unerring; they take the most savage ani-
mals, which may well terrify those who encounter them, and 
subdue them to the will of man; not content with having driven 
out their ferocity, they even tame them so that they dwell in the 
same abode. The trainer puts his hand into the lion’s mouth;[16] 
the tiger is kissed by his keeper. The tiny Aethiopian orders the 
elephant to sink down on its knees, or to walk the rope.[17] Simi-
larly, the wise man is a skilled hand at taming evils. Pain, want, 
disgrace, imprisonment, exile—these are universally to be feared; 
but when they encounter the wise man, they are tamed. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Such as that in Ep. xxxiii. 9 (constructed, however, by Seneca himself) 
   dormienti nemo secretum sermonem committit, etc. See ad loc. and n.
  2. Cf. Ep. lxxxii. 24 subula leonem excipis?
  3. E. V. Arnold (Roman Stoicism, p.333) calls attention to the passion of 
   anger, for example, which the Peripatetics believed should be kept under 
   control, but not stamped out.
  4. Vergil, Aeneid, vii. 808 ff. The lines describe Camilla, the Volscian warrior-
   huntress.
  5. Seneca uses suffusio of jaundice in Ep. xcv. 16. Celsus, vii. 7. 14, explains 
   the cause of cataracts, vel ex morbo vel ex ictu concrescit humor, and 
   outlines the treatment.
  6. Another reply to the Peripatetic claim of § 3.
  7. For this topic of emotions as possible sources of the vices cf. Cicero, Tusc. 
   iv. 10 ex perturbationibus autem primum morbi conficiuntur. . . . Hoc loco 
   nimium operae consumitur a Stoicis.
  8. Representing the views of the Academic school.
  9. Frag. 508 Usener.
10. The happy life constitutes virtue; and virtue, as Seneca says so often, is 
   absolute, permitting neither increase nor diminution.
11. i.e., thereby allowing the aforesaid increase or diminution in virtue.
12. For the argument compare Ep. lxxxii. 7 ff.—the topic,contra  mortem te 
   praeparare.
13. Besides this definition (a standard Stoic one) of the third cardinal virtue, 
   we also find “a knowledge of what to choose and what to avoid,” “knowing 
   to endure things,” and finally “the will to undertake great enterprises.”
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    179

14. Cf. Diogenes Laertius, ii. 79 τοὺς τῶν ἐγκυκλίων παιδευμάτων 
   μετασχόντας, φιλοσοφίας δὲ ἀπολειφθέντας, ὁμοίους ἔλεγεν εἶναι τοῖς 
   τῆς Πηνελόπης μνηστῆρσιν.
15. The figure of the pilot is a frequent one in philosophy, from Plato down. 
   See Seneca, Ep. viii. 4. The same argument, as applied to the musician, is 
   found in Ep. lxxxvii. 12 ff.
16. Cf. De Ben. i. 5 leonum ora a magistris inpune tractantur.
17. Cf. Suet. Galba 6: at the Floralia Galba novum spectaculi genus elephantos 
   funambulos edidit; also id. Nero, 11, and Pliny, N. H. viii. 2.
                    LETTER 86
                On Scipio’s Villa
                        A

I am resting at the country-house which once belonged to Scipio 
Africanus[1] himself; and I write to you after doing reverence to his 
spirit and to an altar which I am inclined to think is the tomb[2] 
of that great warrior. That his soul has indeed returned to the 
skies, whence it came, I am convinced, not because he com-
manded mighty armies—for Cambyses also had mighty armies, 
and Cambyses was a madman[3] who made successful use of his 
madness—but because he showed moderation and a sense of duty 
to a marvellous extent. I regard this trait in him as more admi-
rable after his withdrawal from his native land than while he was 
defending her; for there was the alternative: Scipio should remain 
in Rome, or Rome should remain free.
  “It is my wish,” said he, “not to infringe in the least upon our 
laws, or upon our customs; let all Roman citizens have equal 
rights. O my country, make the most of the good that I have 
done, but without me. I have been the cause of your freedom, 
and I shall also be its proof; I go into exile, if it is true that I have 
grown beyond what is to your advantage!”
  What can I do but admire this magnanimity, which led him to 
withdraw into voluntary exile and to relieve the state of its bur-
den? Matters had gone so far that either liberty must work harm 
to Scipio, or Scipio to liberty. Either of these things was wrong in 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 181

the sight of heaven. So he gave way to the laws and withdrew to 
Liternum, thinking to make the state a debtor for his own exile 
no less than for the exile of Hannibal.[4]
  I have inspected the house, which is constructed of hewn stone; 
the wall which encloses a forest; the towers also, buttressed out 
on both sides for the purpose of defending the house; the well, 
concealed among buildings and shrubbery, large enough to keep 
a whole army supplied; and the small bath, buried in darkness 
according to the old style, for our ancestors did not think that one 
could have a hot bath except in darkness. It was therefore a great 
pleasure to me to contrast Scipio’s ways with our own.
  Think, in this tiny recess the “terror of Carthage,”[5] to whom 
Rome should offer thanks because she was not captured more 
than once, used to bathe a body wearied with work in the fields! 
For he was accustomed to keep himself busy and to cultivate the 
soil with his own hands, as the good old Romans were wont to 
do. Beneath this dingy roof he stood; and this floor, mean as it 
is, bore his weight.
  But who in these days could bear to bathe in such a fashion? We 
think ourselves poor and mean if our walls are not resplendent 
with large and costly mirrors; if our marbles from Alexandria[6] 
are not set off by mosaics of Numidian stone,[7] if their borders 
are not faced over on all sides with difficult patterns, arranged in 
many colours like paintings; if our vaulted ceilings are not bur-
ied in glass; if our swimming-pools are not lined with Thasian 
marble,[8] once a rare and wonderful sight in any temple pools 
into which we let down our bodies after they have been drained 
weak by abundant perspiration; and finally, if the water has not 
poured from silver spigots.
  I have so far been speaking of the ordinary bathing-establish-
ments; what shall I say when I come to those of the freedmen? 
What a vast number of statues, of columns that support nothing, 
182 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

but are built for decoration, merely in order to spend money! 
And what masses of water that fall crashing from level to level! 
We have become so luxurious that we will have nothing but pre-
cious stones to walk upon.
  In this bath of Scipio’s there are tiny chinks—you cannot call 
them windows—cut out of the stone wall in such a way as to admit 
light without weakening the fortifications; nowadays, however, 
people regard baths as fit only for moths if they have not been so 
arranged that they receive the sun all day long through the wid-
est of windows, if men cannot bathe and get a coat of tan at the 
same time, and if they cannot look out from their bath-tubs over 
stretches of land and sea.[9] So it goes; the establishments which 
had drawn crowds and had won admiration when they were first 
opened are avoided and put back in the category of venerable 
antiques as soon as luxury has worked out some new device, to 
her own ultimate undoing.
  In the early days, however, there were few baths, and they were 
not fitted out with any display. For why should men elaborately fit 
out that which, costs a penny only, and was invented for use, not 
merely for delight? The bathers of those day did not have water 
poured over them, nor did it always run fresh as if from a hot 
spring; and they did not believe that it mattered at all how per-
fectly pure was the water into which they were to leave their dirt.
  Ye gods, what a pleasure it is to enter that dark bath, covered 
with a common sort of roof, knowing that therein your hero Cato, 
as aedile, or Fabius Maximus, or one of the Cornelia, has warmed 
the water with his own hands! For this also used to be the duty of 
the noblest aediles—to enter these places to which the populace 
resorted, and to demand that they be cleaned and warmed to a 
heat required by considerations of use and health, not the heat 
that men have recently made fashionable, as great as a confla-
gration—so much so, indeed, that a slave condemned for some 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 183

criminal offence now ought to bebathed  alive! It seems to me that 
nowadays there is no difference between “the bath is on fire,” and 
“the bath is warm.”
  How some persons nowadays condemn Scipio as a boor 
because he did not let daylight into his perspiring-room through 
wide windows, or because he did not roast in the strong sunlight 
and dawdle about until he could stew in the hot water! “Poor 
fool,” they say, “he did not know how to live! He did not bathe in 
filtered water; it was often turbid, and after heavy rains almost 
muddy!” But it did not matter much to Scipio if he had to bathe 
in that way; he went there to wash off sweat, not ointment.
  And how do you suppose certain persons will answer me? They 
will say: “I don’t envy Scipio; that was truly an exile’s life—to put 
up with baths like those!” Friend, if you were wiser, you would 
know that Scipio did not bathe every day. It is stated by those[10] 
who have reported to us the old-time ways of Rome that the 
Romans washed only their arms and legs daily—because those 
were the members which gathered dirt in their daily toil—and 
bathed all over only once a week. Here someone will retort: “Yes; 
pretty dirty fellows they evidently were! How they must have 
smelled!” But they smelled of the camp, the farm, and heroism. 
Now that spick-and-span bathing establishments have been 
devised, men are really fouler than of yore. 
  What says Horatius Flaccus, when he wishes to describe a 
scoundrel, one who is notorious for his extreme luxury? He says. 
“Buccillus[11] smells of perfume.” Show me a Buccillus in these 
days; his smell would be the veritable goat-smell—he would take 
the place of the Gargonius with whom Horace in the same pas-
sage contrasted him. It is nowadays not enough to use ointment, 
unless you put on a fresh coat two or three times a day, to keep 
it from evaporating on the body. But why should a man boast of 
this perfume as if it were his own?
184 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  If what I am saying shall seem to you too pessimistic, charge it 
up against Scipio’s country-house, where I have learned a lesson 
from Aegialus, a most careful householder and now the owner of 
this estate; he taught me that a tree can be transplanted, no mat-
ter how far gone in years. We old men must learn this precept; 
for there is none of us who is not planting an olive-yard for his 
successor. I have seen them bearing fruit in due season after three 
or four years of unproductiveness.[12]
  And you too shall be shaded by the tree which

     Is slow to grow, but bringeth shade to cheer

     Your grandsons in the far-off years,[13]

as our poet Vergil says. Vergil sought, however, not what was 
nearest to the truth, but what was most appropriate, and aimed, 
not to teach the farmer, but to please the reader.
  For example, omitting all other errors of his, I will quote the 
passage in which it was incumbent upon me today to detect a 
fault:

     In spring sow beans then, too, O clover plant,

     Thou’rt welcomed by the crumbling furrows; and
     The millet calls for yearly care.[14]

  You may judge by the following incident whether those plants 
should be set out at the same time, or whether both should be 
sowed in the spring. It is June at the present writing, and we are 
well on towards July; and I have seen on this very day farmers 
harvesting beans and sowing millet.
  But to return to our olive-yard again. I saw it planted in two 
ways. If the trees were large, Aegialus took their trunks and cut 
off the branches to the length of one foot each; he then trans-
planted along with the ball, after cutting off the roots, leaving 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 185

only the thick part from which the roots hang. He smeared this 
with manure, and inserted it in the hole, not only heaping up the 
earth about it, but stamping and pressing it down.
  There is nothing, he says, more effective than this packing pro-
cess;[15] in other words, it keeps out the cold and the wind. Besides, 
the trunk is not shaken so much, and for this reason the packing 
makes it possible for the young roots to come out and get a hold 
in the soil. These are of necessity still soft; they have but a slight 
hold, and a very little shaking uproots them. This ball, more-
over, Aegialus lops clean before he covers it up. For he maintains 
that new roots spring from all the parts which have been shorn. 
Moreover, the trunk itself should not stand more than three or 
four feet out of the ground. For there will thus be at once a thick 
growth from the bottom, nor will there be a large stump, all dry 
and withered, as is the case with old olive-yards.
  The second way of setting them out was the following: he set 
out in similar fashion branches that were strong and of soft bark, 
as those of young saplings are wont to be. These grow a little more 
slowly, but, since they spring from what is practically a cutting, 
there is no roughness or ugliness in them.
  This too I have seen recently—an aged vine transplanted from 
its own plantation. In this case, the fibres also should be gathered 
together, if possible, and then you should cover up the vine-stem 
more generously, so that roots may spring up even from the stock. 
I have seen such plantings made not only in February, but at the 
very end of March; the plants take hold of and embrace alien elms.
  But all trees, he declares, which are, so to speak, “thick-
stemmed,”[16] should be assisted with tank-water; if we have this 
help, we are our own rain-makers.
186   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

   I do not intend to tell you any more of these precepts, lest, as 
Aegialus did with me, I may be training you up to be my com-
petitor. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. See Ep. li. 11.
  2. Cf. Livy xxxvii. 53 morientem rure eo ipso loco sepeliri se iussisse ferunt 
   monumentumque ibi aedificari.
  3. Herodotus iii. 25 ἐμμανής τε ἐὼν καὶ οὐ φρενήρης.
  4. Livy’s account (see above) dwells more on the unwillingness of Scipio and 
   his friends to permit the great conqueror to suffer the indignities of a trial.
  5. A phrase frequent in Roman literature; see Lucretius iii. 1034 Scipiadas, 
   belli fulmen, Carthaginis horror.
  6. Porphyry, basalt, etc.
  7. i.e., the so-called giallo antico, with red and yellow tints predominating.
  8. A white variety, from Thasos, an island off the Thracian coast.
  9. Cf. Pliny, Ep. ii. 17. 12 piscina, ex qua natantes mare aspiciunt.
10. e.g., Varro, in the Catus: balneum non cotidianum.
11. Horace calls him Rufillus Sat( . i. 2. 27): pastillos Rufillus olet, Gargonius 
   hircum.
12. This seems to be the general meaning of the passage.
13. Georgics, ii. 58.
14. Georgics, i. 215 f.
15. In Vitruvius vii. 1 G reads pinsatione, referring to the pounding of stones 
   for flooring.
16. An agricultural term not elsewhere found.
                   LETTER 87
Some Arguments in Favour of the Simple Life
                       A

“I was shipwrecked before I got aboard.”[1] I shall not add how 
that happened, lest you may reckon this also as another of the 
Stoic paradoxes;[2] and yet I shall, whenever you are willing to 
listen, nay, even though you be unwilling, prove to you that these 
words are by no means untrue, nor so surprising as one at first 
sight would think. Meantime, the journey showed me this: how 
much we possess that is superfluous; and how easily we can make 
up our minds to do away with things whose loss, whenever it is 
necessary to part with them, we do not feel.
  My friend Maximus and I have been spending a most happy 
period of two days, taking with us very few slaves—one carriage-
load—and no paraphernalia except what we wore on our persons. 
The mattress lies on the ground, and I upon the mattress. There 
are two rugs—one to spread beneath us and one to cover us.
  Nothing could have been subtracted from our luncheon; it took 
not more than an hour to prepare, and we were nowhere without 
dried figs, never without writing tablets.[3] If I have bread, I use figs 
as a relish; if not, I regard figs as a substitute for bread. Hence they 
bring me a New Year feast every day,[4] and I make the New Year 
happy and prosperous by good thoughts and greatness of soul; for 
the soul is never greater than when it has laid aside all extraneous 
188 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

things, and has secured peace for itself by fearing nothing, and 
riches by craving no riches.
  The vehicle in which I have taken my seat is a farmer’s cart. 
Only by walking do the mules show that they are alive. The driver 
is barefoot, and not because it is summer either. I can scarcely 
force myself to wish that others shall think this cart mine. My 
false embarrassment about the truth still holds out, you see; and 
whenever we meet a more sumptuous party I blush in spite of 
myself—proof that this conduct which I approve and applaud 
has not yet gained a firm and steadfast dwelling-place within me. 
He who blushes at riding in a rattle-trap will boast when he rides 
in style.
  So my progress is still insufficient. I have not yet the courage 
openly to acknowledge my thriftiness. Even yet I am bothered 
by what other travellers think of me. But instead of this, I should 
really have uttered an opinion counter to that in which mankind 
believe, saying, “You are mad, you are misled, your admiration 
devotes itself to superfluous things! You estimate no man at his 
real worth. When property is concerned, you reckon up in this 
way with most scrupulous calculation those to whom you shall 
lend either money or benefits; for by now you enter benefits also 
as payments in your ledger.
  You say. ‘His estates are wide, but his debts are large.’ ‘He has a 
fine house, but he has built it on borrowed capital.’ ‘No man will 
display a more brilliant retinue on short notice, but he cannot 
meet his debts.’[5] ‘If he pays off his creditors, he will have nothing 
left.’” So you will feel bound to do in all other cases as well—to find 
out by elimination the amount of every man’s actual possessions.
  I suppose you call a man rich just because his gold plate goes 
with him even on his travels, because he farms land in all the 
provinces, because he unrolls a large account-book, because he 
owns estates near the city so great that men would grudge his 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 189

holding them in the waste lands of Apulia. But after you have 
mentioned all these facts, he is poor. And why? He is in debt. 
“To what extent?” you ask. For all that he has. Or perchance you 
think it matters whether one has borrowed from another man or 
from Fortune.
  What good is there in mules caparisoned in uniform livery? 
Or in decorated chariots and

     Steeds decked with purple and with tapestry,

     With golden harness hanging from their necks,
     Champing their yellow bits, all clothed in gold?[6]

  Neither master nor mule is improved by such trappings.
  Marcus Cato the Censor, whose existence helped the state as 
much as did Scipio’s—for while Scipio fought against our enemies, 
Cato fought against our bad morals—used to ride a donkey, and 
a donkey, at that, which carried saddle-bags containing the mas-
ter’s necessaries. O how I should love to see him meet today on 
the road one of our coxcombs,[7] with his outriders and Numid-
ians, and a great cloud of dust before him! Your dandy would 
no doubt seem refined and well-attended in comparison with 
Marcus Cato—your dandy, who, in the midst of all his luxurious 
paraphernalia, is chiefly concerned whether to turn his hand to 
the sword or to the hunting-knife.[8]
  O what a glory to the times in which he lived, for a general who 
had celebrated a triumph, a censor, and what is most noteworthy 
of all, a Cato, to be content with a single nag, and with less than a 
whole nag at that! For part of the animal was pre-empted by the 
baggage that hung down on either flank. Would you not therefore 
prefer Cato’s steed, that single steed, saddle-worn by Cato himself, 
to the coxcomb’s whole retinue of plump ponies, Spanish cobs,[9] 
and trotters?[10]
190 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  I see that there will be no end in dealing with such a theme 
unless I make an end myself. So I shall now become silent, at 
least with reference to superfluous things like these; doubtless 
the man who first called them “hindrances”[11] had a prophetic 
inkling that they would be the very sort of thing they now are. 
At present I should like to deliver to you the syllogisms, as yet 
very few, belonging to our school and bearing upon the question 
of virtue, which, in our opinion, is sufficient for the happy life.
  “That which is good makes men good. For example, that which 
is good in the art of music makes the musician. But chance events 
do not make a good man; therefore, chance events are not goods.” 
The Peripatetics reply to this by saying that the premiss is false; 
that men do not in every case become good by means of that 
which is good; that in music there is something good, like a flute, 
a harp, or an organ suited to accompany singing; but that none 
of these instruments makes the musician.
  We shall then reply: “You do not understand in what sense we 
have used the phrase ‘that which is good in music.’ For we do not 
mean that which equips the musician, but that which makes the 
musician; you, however, are referring to the instruments of the 
art, and not to the art itself.[12] If, however, anything in the art of 
music is good, that will in every case make the musician.”
  And I should like to put this idea still more clearly. We define 
the good in the art of music in two ways: first, that by which 
the performance of the musician is assisted, and second, that by 
which his art is assisted. Now the musical instruments have to do 
with his performance—such as flutes and organs and harps; but 
they do not have to do with the musician’s art itself. For he is an 
artist even without them; he may perhaps be lacking in the ability 
to practice his art. But the good in man is not in the same way 
twofold; for the good of man and the good of life are the same.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 191

  “That which can fall to the lot of any man, no matter how base 
or despised he may be, is not a good. But wealth falls to the lot 
of the pander and the trainer of gladiators; therefore wealth is 
not a good.” “Another wrong premiss,” they say, “for we notice 
that goods fall to the lot of the very lowest sort of men, not only 
in the scholar’s art, but also in the art of healing or in the art of 
navigating.”
  These arts, however, make no profession of greatness of soul; 
they do not rise to any heights nor do they frown upon what 
fortune may bring.[13] It is virtue that uplifts man and places him 
superior to what mortals hold dear; virtue neither craves over-
much nor fears to excess that which is called good or that which 
is called bad. Chelidon, one of Cleopatra’s eunuchs, possessed 
great wealth; and recently Natalis—a man whose tongue was as 
shameless as it was dirty, a man whose mouth used to perform 
the vilest offices—was the heir of many, and also made many his 
heirs. What then? Was it his money that made him unclean, or did 
he himself besmirch his money? Money tumbles into the hands 
of certain men as a shilling tumbles down a sewer.
  Virtue stands above all such things. It is appraised in coin of 
its own minting;[14] and it deems none of these random windfalls 
to be good. But medicine and navigation do not forbid them-
selves and their followers to marvel at such things. One who is 
not a good man can nevertheless be a physician, or a pilot or a 
scholar—yes just as well as he can be a cook! He to whose lot it 
falls to possess something which is not of a random sort, cannot 
be called a random sort of man: a person is of the same sort as 
that which he possesses.
  A strong-box is worth just what it holds; or rather, it is a mere 
accessory of that which it holds. Who ever sets any price upon a 
full purse except the price established by the count of the money 
192 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

deposited therein? This also applies to the owners of great estates: 
they are only accessories and incidentals to their possessions.
  Why, then, is the wise man great? Because he has a great soul. 
Accordingly, it is true that that which falls to the lot even of the 
most despicable person is not a good.
  Thus, I should never regard inactivity as a good; for even the 
tree-frog and the flea possess this quality.[15] Nor should I regard 
rest and freedom from trouble as a good; for what is more at lei-
sure than a worm? Do you ask what it is that produces the wise 
man? That which produces a god.[16] You must grant that the wise 
man has in an element of godliness, heavenliness, grandeur. The 
good does not come to every one, nor does it allow any random 
person to possess it.
  Behold:

     What fruits each country bears, or will not bear;

     Here corn, and there the vine, grow richlier.
     And elsewhere still the tender tree and grass
     Unbidden clothe themselves in green. Seest thou
     How Tmolus ships its saffron perfumes forth,
     And ivory comes from Ind; soft Sheba sends
     Its incense, and the unclad Chalybes
     Their iron.[17]

  These products are apportioned to separate countries in order 
that human beings may be constrained to traffic among them-
selves, each seeking something from his neighbour in his turn. 
So the Supreme Good has also its own abode. It does not grow 
where ivory grows, or iron. Do you ask where the Supreme Good 
dwells? In the soul. And unless the soul be pure and holy, there 
is no room in it for God.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 193

  “Good does not result from evil. But riches result from greed; 
therefore, riches are not a good.” “It is not true,” they say, “that 
good does not result from evil. For money comes from sacrilege 
and theft. Accordingly, although sacrilege and theft are evil, yet 
they are evil only because they work more evil than good. For 
they bring gain; but the gain is accompanied by fear, anxiety, and 
torture of mind and body.”
  Whoever says this must perforce admit that sacrilege, though it 
be an evil because it works much evil, is yet partly good because 
it accomplishes a certain amount of good. What can be more 
monstrous than this? We have, to be sure, actually convinced 
the world that sacrilege, theft, and adultery are to be regarded as 
among the goods. How many men there are who do not blush at 
theft, how many who boast of having committed adultery! For 
petty sacrilege is punished, but sacrilege on a grand scale is hon-
oured by a triumphal procession.
  Besides, sacrilege, if it is wholly good in some respect, will also 
be honourable and will be called right conduct; for it is conduct 
which concerns ourselves. But no human being, on serious con-
sideration, admits this idea.
  Therefore, goods cannot spring from evil. For if, as you object, 
sacrilege is an evil for the single reason that it brings on much 
evil, if you but absolve sacrilege of its punishment and pledge it 
immunity, sacrilege will be wholly good. And yet the worst pun-
ishment for crime lies in the crime itself.
  You are mistaken, I maintain, if you propose to reserve your 
punishments for the hangman or the prison; the crime is pun-
ished immediately after it is committed; nay, rather, at the moment 
when it is committed. Hence, good does not spring from evil, any 
more than figs grow from olive-trees. Things which grow corre-
spond to their seed; and goods cannot depart from their class. As 
that which is honourable does not grow from that which is base, 
194 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

so neither does good grow from evil. For the honourable and the 
good are identical.[18]
  Certain of our school oppose this statement as follows: “Let us 
suppose that money taken from any source whatsoever is a good; 
even though it is taken by an act of sacrilege, the money does 
not on that account derive its origin from sacrilege. You may get 
my meaning through the following illustration: In the same jar 
there is a piece of gold and there is a serpent. If you take the gold 
from the jar, it is not just because the serpent is there too, I say, 
that the jar yields me the gold—because it contains the serpent as 
well—but it yields the gold in spite of containing the serpent also. 
Similarly, gain results from sacrilege, not just because sacrilege 
is a base and accursed act, but because it contains gain also. As 
the serpent in the jar is an evil, and not the gold which lies there, 
beside the serpent; so in an act of sacrilege it is the crime, not the 
profit, that is evil.”
  But I differ from these men; for the conditions in each case are 
not at all the same. In the one instance I can take the gold without 
the serpent, in the other I cannot make the profit without com-
mitting the sacrilege. The gain in the latter case does not lie side 
by side with the crime; it is blended with the crime.
  “That which, while we are desiring to attain it, involves us in 
many evils, is not a good. But while we are desiring to attain 
riches, we become involved in many evils; therefore, riches are not 
a good,”[19] “Your first premiss,” they say, “contains two meanings; 
one is: we become involved in many evils while we are desiring to 
attain riches. But we also become involved in many evils while we 
are desiring to attain virtue. One man, while travelling in order 
to prosecute his studies, suffers shipwreck, and another is taken 
captive.
  The second meaning is as follows: that through which we 
become involved in evils is not a good. And it will not logically 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 195

follow from our proposition that we become involved in evils 
through riches or through pleasure; otherwise, if it is through 
riches that we become involved in many evils, riches are not only 
not a good, but they are positively an evil. You, however, maintain 
merely that they are not a good. Moreover,” the objector says, “you 
grant that riches are of some use. You reckon them among the 
advantages; and yet on this basis they cannot even be an advan-
tage, for it is through the pursuit of riches that we suffer much 
disadvantage.”
  Certain men answer this objection as follows: “You are mis-
taken if you ascribe disadvantages to riches. Riches injure no one; 
it is a man’s own folly, or his neighbour’s wickedness, that harms 
him in each case, just as a sword by itself does not slay; it is merely 
the weapon used by the slayer. Riches themselves do not harm 
you, just because it is on account of riches that you suffer harm.”
  I think that the reasoning of Posidonius is better: he holds that 
riches are a cause of evil, not because, of themselves, they do any 
evil, but because they goad men on so that they are ready to do 
evil. For the efficient cause, which necessarily produces harm at 
once, is one thing, and the antecedent cause is another. It is this 
antecedent cause which inheres in riches; they puff up the spirit 
and beget pride, they bring on unpopularity and unsettle the 
mind to such an extent that the mere reputation of having wealth, 
though it is bound to harm us, nevertheless affords delight.
  All goods, however, ought properly to be free from blame; they 
are pure, they do not corrupt the spirit, and they do not tempt us. 
They do, indeed, uplift and broaden the spirit, but without puff-
ing it up. Those things which are goods produce confidence, but 
riches produce shamelessness. The things which are goods give 
us greatness of soul, but riches give us arrogance. And arrogance 
is nothing else than a false show of greatness.
196 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  “According to that argument,” the objector says, “riches are 
not only not a good, but are a positive evil.” Now they would be 
an evil if they did harm of themselves, and if, as I remarked, it 
were the efficient cause which inheres in them; in fact, however, 
it is the antecedent cause which inheres in riches, and indeed it is 
that cause which, so far from merely arousing the spirit, actually 
drags it along by force. Yes, riches shower upon us a semblance 
of the good, which is like the reality and wins credence in the 
eyes of many men.
  The antecedent cause inheres in virtue also; it is this which 
brings on envy—for many men become unpopular because of 
their wisdom, and many men because of their justice. But this 
cause, though it inheres in virtue, is not the result of virtue itself, 
nor is it a mere semblance of the reality; nay, on the contrary, far 
more like the reality is that vision which is flashed by virtue upon 
the spirits of men, summoning them to love it and marvel thereat.
  Posidonius thinks that the syllogism should be framed as 
follows: “Things which bestow upon the soul no greatness or 
confidence or freedom from care are not goods. But riches and 
health and similar conditions do none of these things; therefore, 
riches and health are not goods.” This syllogism he then goes on 
to extend still farther in the following way: “Things which bestow 
upon the soul no greatness or confidence or freedom from care, 
but on the other hand create in it arrogance, vanity, and insolence, 
are evils. But things which are the gift of Fortune drive us into 
these evil ways. Therefore these things are not goods.”
  “But,” says the objector, “by such reasoning, things which are 
the gift of Fortune will not even be advantages.” No, advantages 
and goods stand each in a different situation. An advantage is that 
which contains more of usefulness than of annoyance. But a good 
ought to be unmixed and with no element in it of harmfulness. A 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 197

thing is not good if it contains more benefit than injury, but only 
if it contains nothing but benefit.
  Besides, advantages may be predicated of animals, of men who 
are less than perfect, and of fools. Hence the advantageous may 
have an element of disadvantage mingled with it, but the word 
“advantageous” is used of the compound because it is judged by 
its predominant element. The good, however, can be predicated 
of the wise man alone; it is bound to be without alloy,
  Be of good cheer; there is only one knot[20] left for you to untan-
gle, though it is a knot for a Hercules: “Good does not result from 
evil. But riches result from numerous cases of poverty; therefore, 
riches are not a good.” This syllogism is not recognized by our 
school, but the Peripatetics both concoct it and give its solution. 
Posidonius, however, remarks that this fallacy, which has been 
bandied about among all the schools of dialectic, is refuted by 
Antipater[21] as follows:
  “The word ‘poverty’ is used to denote, not the possession[22] of 
something, but the non-possession or, as the ancients have put 
it, deprivation, (for the Greeks use the phrase ‘by deprivation,’ 
meaning ‘negatively’). ‘Poverty’ states, not what a man has, but 
what he has not. Consequently there can be no fullness resulting 
from a multitude of voids; many positive things, and not many 
deficiencies, make up riches. You have,” says he, “a wrong notion 
of the meaning of what poverty is. For poverty does not mean the 
possession of little, but the non-possession of much; it is used, 
therefore, not of what a man has, but of what he lacks.”
  I could express my meaning more easily if there were a Latin 
word which could translate the Greek word which means “not-
possessing.” Antipater assigns this quality to poverty, but for my 
part I cannot see what else poverty is than the possession of little. 
If ever we have plenty of leisure, we shall investigate the question: 
what is the essence of riches, and what the essence of poverty; 
198 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

but when the time comes, we shall also consider whether it is 
not better to try to mitigate poverty, and to relieve wealth of its 
arrogance, than to quibble about the words as if the question of 
the things were already decided.
  Let us suppose that we have been summoned to an assembly; 
an act dealing with the abolition of riches has been brought before 
the meeting. Shall we be supporting it, or opposing it, if we use 
these syllogisms? Will these syllogisms help us to bring it about 
that the Roman people shall demand poverty and praise it—pov-
erty, the foundation and cause of their empire—and, on the other 
hand, shall shrink in fear from their present wealth, reflecting 
that they have found it among the victims of their conquests, 
that wealth is the source from which office-seeking and bribery 
and disorder[23] have burst into a city once characterized by the 
utmost scrupulousness and sobriety, and that because of wealth 
an exhibition all too lavish is made of the spoils of conquered 
nations; reflecting, finally, that whatever one people has snatched 
away from all the rest may still more easily be snatched by all 
away from one? Nay, it were better to support this law by our 
conduct and to subdue our desires by direct assault rather than 
to circumvent them by logic. If we can, let us speak more boldly; 
if not, let us speak more frankly.

Footnotes
  1. i.e., on my journey I travelled with almost as meagre an equipment as a 
  shipwrecked man.
  2. Cf. Ep. lxxxi. 11 and note.
  3. As Pliny the Elder (a man of the same inquiring turn of mind) did on his 
  journeys, Pliny, Ep. iii. 5. 15.
  4. Caricas  were sent as New Year gifts, implying by their sweetness the good 
  wishes of the sender.
  5. Nomen  in this sense means primarily the name entered in the ledger; 
  secondarily, the item or transaction with which the name is connected.
  6. Vergil, Aeneid, vii. 277 ff., describing the gifts sent by King Latinus to 
  Aeneas.
  7. For trossuli cf. Ep. lxxvi. 2, and footnote.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    199

  8. i.e., whether to turn gladiator or bestiarius.
  9. “Amblers” from Asturia in Spain.
10. Horses with rapid steps, compared with gradarii, “slow pacers, 
   cf. Ep. xl. 11.
11. The literal meaning of impedimenta, “luggage.”
12. Cf. Plato, Phaedo 86, where Socrates contrasts the material lyre with the 
   “incorporeal, fair, divine” harmony which makes the music.
13. See Ep. lxxxviii., which is devoted to the development of this thought.
14. i.e., at its own worth.
15. Cf. the argument in lxxvi. 9 f.
16. i.e., perfect reason and obedience to Nature.
17. Vergil, Georg. i. 53 ff.
18. The good is absolute. The Stoics held that virtue and moral worth were 
   identical, although those who followed the argument to its logical 
   conclusion had to explain away many seeming inconsistencies. Cf. Ep. 
   lxxxv. 17.
19. That riches are not a good, but merely an advantage, was one of the Stoic 
   paradoxes. In another passage (Dial. vii. 24. 5) Seneca speaks of them in 
   a kindlier manner: divitias nego bonum esse; nam si essent, bonos facerent. 
   Ceterum et habendas esse et utiles et magna commoda vitae adferentis 
   fateor. Cf. § 36 of this letter.
20. The “knot of Hercules” is associated with thecaduceus  (twining serpents) 
   in Macrob. Sat. i. 19. 16; and in Pliny, N. H. xxviii. 63, it has magic 
   properties in the binding up of wounds.
21. Frag. 54 von Arnim.
22. Per  possessionem translates the Greek καθ᾽ ἕξιν, as per orbationem (or 
   detractionem) translates κατὰ στέρησιν.
23. Seneca here bursts into a diatribe on the corruption of Rome, a habit 
   which we find in many other of his writings, especially in the Naturales 
   Quaestiones.
                   Japanese: Kokoro.
    English: Heart or spirit. As one example in context, it is 
   found in the Zen expression mushin no shin ( 無心の心), 
meaning “the mind without mind” or the state of “no-mindness,” 
    which refers to a mind not fixed or occupied by thought 
          or emotion and thus open to everything.

                 Calligrapher: Noriko Lake
                   LETTER 88
      On Liberal and Vocational Studies
                       A

You have been wishing to know my views with regard to liberal 
studies.[1] My answer is this: I respect no study, and deem no 
study good, which results in money-making. Such studies are 
profit-bringing occupations, useful only in so far as they give the 
mind a preparation and do not engage it permanently. One should 
linger upon them only so long as the mind can occupy itself with 
nothing greater; they are our apprenticeship, not our real work.
  Hence you see why “liberal studies” are so called; it is because 
they are studies worthy of a free-born gentleman. But there is only 
one really liberal study—that which gives a man his liberty. It is 
the study of wisdom, and that is lofty, brave, and great-souled. 
All other studies are puny and puerile. You surely do not believe 
that there is good in any of the subjects whose teachers are, as you 
see, men of the most ignoble and base stamp? We ought not to be 
learning such things; we should have done with learning them.
  Certain persons have made up their minds that the point at 
issue with regard to the liberal studies is whether they make men 
good; but they do not even profess or aim at a knowledge of this 
particular subject.
  The scholar[2] busies himself with investigations into language, 
and if it be his desire to go farther afield, he works on history, or, 
if he would extend his range to the farthest limits, on poetry. But 
202 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

which of these paves the way to virtue? Pronouncing syllables, 
investigating words, memorizing plays, or making rules for the 
scansion of poetry, what is there in all this that rids one of fear, 
roots out desire, or bridles the passions?
  The question is: do such men teach virtue, or not? If they do not 
teach it, then neither do they transmit it. If they do teach it, they 
are philosophers. Would you like to know how it happens that 
they have not taken the chair for the purpose of teaching virtue? 
See how unlike their subjects are; and yet their subjects would 
resemble each other if they taught the same thing.[3]
  It may be, perhaps, that they make you believe that Homer was 
a philosopher,[4] although they disprove this by the very argu-
ments through which they seek to prove it. For sometimes they 
make of him a Stoic, who approves nothing but virtue, avoids 
pleasures, and refuses to relinquish honour even at the price of 
immortality; sometimes they make him an Epicurean, praising 
the condition of a state in repose, which passes its days in feast-
ing and song; sometimes a Peripatetic, classifying goodness in 
three ways;[5] sometimes an Academic, holding that all things are 
uncertain. It is clear, however, that no one of these doctrines is to 
be fathered upon Homer, just because they are all there; for they 
are irreconcilable with one another. We may admit to these men, 
indeed, that Homer was a philosopher; yet surely he became a 
wise man before he had any knowledge of poetry. So let us learn 
the particular things that made Homer wise.
  It is no more to the point, of course, for me to investigate 
whether Homer or Hesiod was the older poet, than to know why 
Hecuba, although younger than Helen,[6] showed her years so 
lamentably. What, in your opinion, I say, would be the point in 
trying to determine the respective ages of Achilles and Patroclus?
  Do you raise the question, “Through what regions did Ulysses 
stray?” instead of trying to prevent ourselves from going astray 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 203

at all times? We have no leisure to hear lectures on the question 
whether he was sea-tost between Italy and Sicily, or outside our 
known world (indeed, so long a wandering could not possibly 
have taken place within its narrow bounds); we ourselves encoun-
ter storms of the spirit, which toss us daily, and our depravity 
drives us into all the ills which troubled Ulysses. For us there is 
never lacking the beauty to tempt our eyes, or the enemy to assail 
us; on this side are savage monsters that delight in human blood, 
on that side the treacherous allurements of the ear, and yonder is 
shipwreck and all the varied category of misfortunes.[7] Show me 
rather, by the example of Ulysses, how I am to love my country, 
my wife, my father, and how, even after suffering shipwreck, I am 
to sail toward these ends, honourable as they are.
  Why try to discover whether Penelope was a pattern of purity,[8] 
or whether she had the laugh on her contemporaries? Or whether 
she suspected that the man in her presence was Ulysses, before 
she knew it was he? Teach me rather what purity is, and how 
great a good we have in it, and whether it is situated in the body 
or in the soul.
  Now I will transfer my attention to the musician. You, sir, are 
teaching me how the treble and the bass[9] are in accord with one 
another, and how, though the strings produce different notes, 
the result is a harmony; rather bring my soul into harmony with 
itself, and let not my purposes be out of tune. You are showing me 
what the doleful keys[10] are; show me rather how, in the midst of 
adversity, I may keep from uttering a doleful note.
  The mathematician teaches me how to lay out the dimensions 
of my estates; but I should rather be taught how to lay out what 
is enough for a man to own. He teaches me to count, and adapts 
my fingers to avarice; but I should prefer him to teach me that 
there is no point in such calculations, and that one is none the 
happier for tiring out the book-keepers with his possessions—or 
204 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

rather, how useless property is to any man who would find it the 
greatest misfortune if he should be required to reckon out, by his 
own wits, the amount of his holdings.
  What good is there for me in knowing how to parcel out a piece 
of land, if I know not how to share it with my brother? What good 
is there in working out to a nicety the dimensions of an acre, and 
in detecting the error if a piece has so much as escaped my mea-
suring-rod, if I am embittered when an ill-tempered neighbour 
merely scrapes off a bit of my land? The mathematician teaches 
me how I may lose none of my boundaries; I, however, seek to 
learn how to lose them all with a light heart.
  “But,” comes the reply, “I am being driven from the farm which 
my father and grandfather owned!” Well? Who owned the land 
before your grandfather? Can you explain what people (I will not 
say what person) held it originally? You did not enter upon it as a 
master, but merely as a tenant. And whose tenant are you? If your 
claim is successful, you are tenant of the heir. The lawyers say that 
public property cannot be acquired privately by possession;[11] 
what you hold and call your own is public property—indeed, it 
belongs to mankind at large.
  O what marvellous skill! You know how to measure the circle; 
you find the square of any shape which is set before you; you 
compute the distances between the stars; there is nothing which 
does not come within the scope of your calculations. But if you 
are a real master of your profession, measure me the mind of man! 
Tell me how great it is, or how puny! You know what a straight 
line is; but how does it benefit you if you do not know what is 
straight in this life of ours?
   I come next to the person who boasts his knowledge of the 
heavenly bodies, who knows

     Whither the chilling star of Saturn hides,
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 205

     And through what orbit Mercury doth stray.[12]

  Of what benefit will it be to know this? That I shall be disturbed 
because Saturn and Mars are in opposition, or when Mercury sets 
at eventide in plain view of Saturn, rather than learn that those 
stars, wherever they are, are propitious,[13] and that they are not 
subject to change?
  They are driven along by an unending round of destiny, on a 
course from which they cannot swerve. They return at stated sea-
sons; they either set in motion, or mark the intervals of the whole 
world’s work. But if they are responsible for whatever happens, 
how will it help you to know the secrets of the immutable? Or 
if they merely give indications, what good is there in foreseeing 
what you cannot escape? Whether you know these things or not, 
they will take place.

     Behold the fleeting sun,

     The stars that follow in his train, and thou
     Shalt never find the morrow play thee false,
     Or be misled by nights without a cloud.[14]

  It has, however, been sufficiently and fully ordained that I shall 
be safe from anything that may mislead me.
  “What,” you say, “does the ‘morrow never play me false’? What-
ever happens without my knowledge plays me false.” I, for my 
part, do not know what is to be, but I do know what may come to 
be. I shall have no misgivings in this matter; I await the future in 
its entirety; and if there is any abatement in its severity, I make the 
most of it. If the morrow treats me kindly, it is a sort of deception; 
but it does not deceive me even at that. For just as I know that all 
things can happen, so I know, too, that they will not happen in 
every case. I am ready for favourable events in every case, but I 
am prepared for evil.
206 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  In this discussion you must bear with me if I do not follow 
the regular course. For I do not consent to admit painting into 
the list of liberal arts, any more than sculpture, marble-working, 
and other helps toward luxury. I also debar from the liberal stud-
ies wrestling and all knowledge that is compounded of oil and 
mud;[15] otherwise, I should be compelled to admit perfumers 
also, and cooks, and all others who lend their wits to the service 
of our pleasures.
  For what “liberal” element is there in these ravenous takers of 
emetics, whose bodies are fed to fatness while their minds are 
thin and dull?[16] Or do we really believe that the training which 
they give is “liberal” for the young men of Rome, who used to be 
taught by our ancestors to stand straight and hurl a spear, to wield 
a pike, to guide a horse, and to handle weapons? Our ancestors 
used to teach their children nothing that could be learned while 
lying down. But neither the new system nor the old teaches or 
nourishes virtue. For what good does it do us to guide a horse 
and control his speed with the curb, and then find that our own 
passions, utterly uncurbed, bolt with us? Or to beat many oppo-
nents in wrestling or boxing, and then to find that we ourselves 
are beaten by anger?
  “What then,” you say, “do the liberal studies contribute noth-
ing to our welfare?” Very much in other respects, but nothing at 
all as regards virtue. For even these arts of which I have spoken, 
though admittedly of a low grade—depending as they do upon 
handiwork—contribute greatly toward the equipment of life, but 
nevertheless have nothing to do with virtue. And if you inquire, 
“Why, then, do we educate our children in the liberal studies?”[17] 
it is not because they can bestow virtue, but because they pre-
pare the soul for the reception of virtue. Just as that “primary 
course,”[18] as the ancients called it, in grammar, which gave boys 
their elementary training, does not teach them the liberal arts, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 207

but prepares the ground for their early acquisition of these arts, 
so the liberal arts do not conduct the soul all the way to virtue, 
but merely set it going in that direction.
  Posidonius[19] divides the arts into four classes: first we have 
those which are common and low, then those which serve for 
amusement, then those which refer to the education of boys, and, 
finally, the liberal arts. The common sort belong to workmen and 
are mere hand-work; they are concerned with equipping life; there 
is in them no pretence to beauty or honour.
  The arts of amusement are those which aim to please the eye 
and the ear. To this class you may assign the stage-machinists, 
who invent scaffolding that goes aloft of its own accord, or floors 
that rise silently into the air, and many other surprising devices, 
as when objects that fit together then fall apart, or objects which 
are separate then join together automatically, or objects which 
stand erect then gradually collapse. The eye of the inexperienced 
is struck with amazement by these things; for such persons marvel 
at everything that takes place without warning, because they do 
not know the causes.
  The arts which belong to the education of boys, and are some-
what similar to the liberal arts, are those which the Greeks call 
the “cycle of studies,”[20] but which we Romans call the “liberal.” 
However, those alone are really liberal—or rather, to give them a 
truer name, “free”—whose concern is virtue.
  “But,” one will say, “just as there is a part of philosophy which 
has to do with nature, and a part which has to do with ethics, and 
a part which has to do with reasoning, so this group of liberal arts 
also claims for itself a place in philosophy. When one approaches 
questions that deal with nature, a decision is reached by means 
of a word from the mathematician. Therefore mathematics is a 
department of that branch which it aids.”[21]
208 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  But many things aid us and yet are not parts of ourselves. Nay, 
if they were, they would not aid us. Food is an aid to the body, but 
is not a part of it. We get some help from the service which mathe-
matics renders; and mathematics is as indispensable to philosophy 
as the carpenter is to the mathematician. But carpentering is not 
a part of mathematics, nor is mathematics a part of philosophy.
  Moreover, each has its own limits; for the wise man investigates 
and learns the causes of natural phenomena, while the mathema-
tician follows up and computes their numbers and their measure-
ments.[22] The wise man knows the laws by which the heavenly 
bodies persist, what powers belong to them, and what attributes; 
the astronomer merely notes their comings and goings, the rules 
which govern their settings and their risings, and the occasional 
periods during which they seem to stand still, although as a mat-
ter of fact no heavenly body can stand still.
  The wise man will know what causes the reflection in a mir-
ror; but, the mathematician can merely tell you how far the body 
should be from the reflection, and what shape of mirror will pro-
duce a given reflection.[23] The philosopher will demonstrate that 
the sun is a large body, while the astronomer will compute just 
how large, progressing in knowledge by his method of trial and 
experiment; but in order to progress, he must summon to his aid 
certain principles. No art, however, is sufficient unto itself, if the 
foundation upon which it rests depends upon mere favour.
  Now philosophy asks no favours from any other source; it 
builds everything on its own soil; but the science of numbers is, 
so to speak, a structure built on another man’s land—it builds 
on everything on alien soil;[24] It accepts first principles, and by 
their favour arrives at further conclusions. If it could march unas-
sisted to the truth, if it were able to understand the nature of the 
universe, I should say that it would offer much assistance to our 
minds; for the mind grows by contact with things heavenly and 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 209

draws into itself something from on high. There is but one thing 
that brings the soul to perfection—the unalterable knowledge 
of good and evil. But there is no other art[25] which investigates 
good and evil.
  I should like to pass in review the several virtues.
  Bravery is a scorner of things which inspire fear; it looks down 
upon, challenges, and crushes the powers of terror and all that 
would drive our freedom under the yoke. But do “liberal stud-
ies”[26] strengthen this virtue? Loyalty is the holiest good in the 
human heart; it is forced into betrayal by no constraint, and it is 
bribed by no rewards. Loyalty cries: “Burn me, slay me, kill me! 
I shall not betray my trust; and the more urgently torture shall 
seek to find my secret, the deeper in my heart will I bury it!” Can 
the “liberal arts” produce such a spirit within us? Temperance 
controls our desires; some it hates and routs, others it regulates 
and restores to a healthy measure, nor does it ever approach our 
desires for their own sake. Temperance knows that the best mea-
sure of the appetites is not what you want to take, but what you 
ought to take.
  Kindliness forbids you to be over-bearing towards your associ-
ates, and it forbids you to be grasping. In words and in deeds and 
in feelings it shows itself gentle and courteous to all men. It counts 
no evil as another’s solely. And the reason why it loves its own 
good is chiefly because it will some day be the good of another. Do 
“liberal studies” teach a man such character as this? No; no more 
than they teach simplicity, moderation and self-restraint, thrift 
and economy, and that kindliness which spares a neighbour’s life 
as if it were one’s own and knows that it is not for man to make 
wasteful use of his fellow-man.
  “But,” one says, “since you declare that virtue cannot be attained 
without the ‘liberal studies,’ how is it that you deny that they 
offer any assistance to virtue?”[27] Because you cannot attain virtue 
210 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

without food, either; and yet food has nothing to do with vir-
tue. Wood does not offer assistance to a ship, although a ship 
cannot be built except of wood. There is no reason, I say, why 
you should think that anything is made by the assistance of that 
without which it cannot be made.
  We might even make the statement that it is possible to attain 
wisdom without the “liberal studies”; for although virtue is a 
thing that must be learned, yet it is not learned by means of these 
studies.
  What reason have I, however, for supposing that one who 
is ignorant of letters will never be a wise man, since wisdom is 
not to be found in letters? Wisdom communicates facts[28] and 
not words; and it may be true that the memory is more to be 
depended upon when it has no support outside itself.
  Wisdom is a large and spacious thing. It needs plenty of free 
room. One must learn about things divine and human, the past 
and the future, the ephemeral and the eternal; and one must learn 
about Time.[29] See how many questions arise concerning time 
alone: in the first place, whether it is anything in and by itself; 
in the second place, whether anything exists prior to time and 
without time; and again, did time begin along with the universe, 
or, because there was something even before the universe began, 
did time also exist then?
  There are countless questions concerning the soul alone: 
whence it comes, what is its nature, when it begins to exist, and 
how long it exists; whether it passes from one place to another 
and changes its habitation, being transferred successively from 
one animal shape to another, or whether it is a slave but once, 
roaming the universe after it is set free; whether it is corporeal 
or not; what will become of it when it ceases to use us as its 
medium; how it will employ its freedom when it has escaped 
from this present prison; whether it will forget all its past, and at 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 211

that moment begin to know itself when, released from the body, 
it has withdrawn to the skies.
  Thus, whatever phase of things human and divine you have 
apprehended, you will be wearied by the vast number of things 
to be answered and things to be learned. And in order that these 
manifold and mighty subjects may have free entertainment in 
your soul, you must remove therefrom all superfluous things. 
Virtue will not surrender herself to these narrow bounds of ours; 
a great subject needs wide space in which to move. Let all other 
things be driven out, and let the breast be emptied to receive 
virtue.
  “But it is a pleasure to be acquainted with many arts.” Therefore 
let us keep only as much of them as is essential. Do you regard 
that man as blameworthy who puts superfluous things on the 
same footing with useful things, and in his house makes a lav-
ish display of costly objects, but do not deem him blameworthy 
who has allowed himself to become engrossed with the useless 
furniture of learning? This desire to know more than is sufficient 
is a sort of intemperance.
  Why? Because this unseemly pursuit of the liberal arts makes 
men troublesome, wordy, tactless, self-satisfied bores, who fail 
to learn the essentials just because they have learned the non-
essentials. Didymus the scholar wrote four thousand books. I 
should feel pity for him if he had only read the same number 
of superfluous volumes. In these books he investigates Homer’s 
birthplace,[30] who was really the mother of Aeneas, whether Ana-
creon was more of a rake or more of a drunkard, whether Sap-
pho was a bad lot,[31] and other problems the answers to which, 
if found, were forthwith to be forgotten. Come now, do not tell 
me that life is long!
212 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  Nay, when you come to consider our own countrymen also, 
I can show you many works which ought to be cut down with 
the axe.
  It is at the cost of a vast outlay of time and of vast discomfort to 
the ears of others that we win such praise as this: “What a learned 
man you are!” Let us be content with this recommendation, less 
citified though it be: “What a good man you are!”
  Do I mean this? Well, would you have me unroll the annals of 
the world’s history and try to find out who first wrote poetry? Or, 
in the absence of written records, shall I make an estimate of the 
number of years which lie between Orpheus and Homer? Or shall 
I make a study of the absurd writings of Aristarchus, wherein he 
branded the text[32] of other men’s verses, and wear my life away 
upon syllables? Shall I then wallow in the geometrician’s dust?[33] 
Have I so far forgotten that useful saw “Save your time”? Must I 
know these things? And what may I choose not to know?
  Apion, the scholar, who drew crowds to his lectures all over 
Greece in the days of Gaius Caesar and was acclaimed a Hom-
erid[34] by every state, used to maintain that Homer, when he 
had finished his two poems, the Iliad and the Odyssey, added a 
preliminary poem to his work, wherein he embraced the whole 
Trojan war.[35] The argument which Apion adduced to prove this 
statement was that Homer had purposely inserted in the opening 
line two letters which contained a key to the number of his books.
  A man who wishes to know many things must know such 
things as these, and must take no thought of all the time which 
one loses by ill-health, public duties, private duties, daily duties, 
and sleep. Apply the measure to the years of your life; they have 
no room for all these things.
  I have been speaking so far of liberal studies; but think how 
much superfluous and unpractical matter the philosophers con-
tain! Of their own accord they also have descended to establishing 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 213

nice divisions of syllables, to determining the true meaning of 
conjunctions and prepositions; they have been envious of the 
scholars, envious of the mathematicians. They have taken over 
into their own art all the superfluities of these other arts; the 
result is that they know more about careful speaking than about 
careful living.
  Let me tell you what evils are due to over-nice exactness, and 
what an enemy it is of truth! Protagoras declares that one can 
take either side on any question and debate it with equal suc-
cess—even on this very question, whether every subject can be 
debated from either point of view. Nausiphanes holds that in 
things which seem to exist, there is no difference between exis-
tence and non-existence.
  Parmenides maintains that nothing exists of all this which 
seems to exist, except the universe alone.[36] Zeno of Elea removed 
all the difficulties by removing one; for he declares that noth-
ing exists. The Pyrrhonean, Megarian, Eretrian, and Academic 
schools are all engaged in practically the same task; they have 
introduced a new knowledge, non-knowledge.
  You may sweep all these theories in with the superfluous troops 
of “liberal” studies; the one class of men give me a knowledge that 
will be of no use to me, the other class do away with any hope of 
attaining knowledge. It is better, of course, to know useless things 
than to know nothing. One set of philosophers offers no light 
by which I may direct my gaze toward the truth; the other digs 
out my very eyes and leaves me blind. If I cleave to Protagoras, 
there is nothing in the scheme of nature that is not doubtful; if I 
hold with Nausiphanes, I am sure only of this—that everything 
is unsure; if with Parmenides, there is nothing except the One;[37] 
if with Zeno, there is not even the One.
214   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

   What are we, then? What becomes of all these things that sur-
round us, support us, sustain us? The whole universe is then a 
vain or deceptive shadow. I cannot readily say whether I am more 
vexed at those who would have it that we know nothing, or with 
those who would not leave us even this privilege. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. The regular round of education, ἐγκύκλιος παιδεία, including grammar, 
   music, geometry, arithmetic, astrology, and certain phases of rhetoric and 
   dialectic, are in this letter contrasted with liberal studies—those which 
   have for their object the pursuit of virtue. Seneca is thus interpreting 
   studia liberalia in a higher sense than his contemporaries would expect. 
   Compare J. R. Lowell’s definition of a university, “a place where nothing 
   useful is taught.”
 2. Grammaticus in classical Greek means “one who is familiar with the 
   alphabet”; in the Alexandrain age a “student of literature”; in the Roman 
   age the equivalent of litteratus. Seneca means here a “specialist in 
   linguistic science.”
  3. i.e., philosophy (virtue).
  4. This theory was approved by Democritus, Hippias of Elis, and the 
   allegorical interpreters; Xenophanes, Heraclitus, and Plato himself 
   condemned Homer for his supposed unphilosophic fabrications.
  5. The tria genera bonorum of Cicero’s De Fin v. 84. Cf. ib. 18, where the 
   three proper objects of man’s search are given as the desire for pleasure, 
   the avoidance of pain, and the attainment of such natural goods as health, 
   strength, and soundnesss of mind. The Stoics held that the good was 
   absolute.
  6. Summers compares Lucian, Gall. 17. Seneca, however, does not take such 
   gossip seriously.
  7. This sentence alludes to Calypso, Circe, the Cyclops, and the Sirens.
  8. Unfavourable comment by Lycophron, and by Cicero, De Nat. Deor. iii. 22 
   (Mercurius) ex quo et Penelopa Pana natum ferunt.
  9. With acutae and graves supply voces.
10. Perhaps the equivalent of a “minor.”
11. i.e., for a certain term of years; see R. W. Leage, Roman Private Law, pp. 
   133 ff. Compare also Lucretius iii. 971, and Horace,Ep.  ii. 2. 159.
12. Vergil, Georg. i. 336 f.
13. Saturn and Mars were regarded as unlucky stars. Astrology, which dates 
   back beyond 3000 B.C. in Babylonia, was developed by the Greeks of the 
   Alexandrian age and got a foothold in Rome by the second century B.C., 
   flourished greatly under Tiberius. Cf. Horace,Od.  i. 11. 1 f.; Juv. iii. 42 
   f., and F. Cumont, Astrology and Religion among the Greeks and Romans 
   (trans.), esp. pp. 68 ff. and 84 ff.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    215

14. Vergil, Georg. i. 424 ff.
15. An allusion to the sand and oil of the wrestling-ring.
16. Cf. Ep. xv. 3 copia ciborum subtilitas inpeditur.
17. In a strict sense; not, as in § 2, as Seneca thinks that the term should really 
   be defined—the “liberal” study, i.e. the pursuit of wisdom.
18. For the πρώτη ἀγωγή see Quintilian, ii. 1. 4.
19. From what work of Posidonius Seneca is here quoting we do not know; 
   it may be from the Προτρεπτικά, or Exhortations, indicating the training 
   preliminary to philosophy.
20. See § 1 note.
21. i.e., mathematics is a department of philosophia naturalis.
22. This line of argument inversely resembles the criticism by Seneca of 
   Posidonius in Ep. xc.—that the inventions of early science cannot be 
   properly termed a part of philosophy.
23. See N. Q. i. 4 ff.
24. According to Roman law, superficies solo cedit, “the building goes with the 
   g rou n d .”
25. Except philosophy.
26. i.e., in the more commonly accepted sense of the term.
27. This usage is a not infrequent one in Latin; cf. Petronius,Sat.  42 neminem 
   nihil boni facere oportet; id. ib. 58; Verg. Ecl. v. 25, etc. See Draeger, Hist. 
   Syn. ii. 75, and Roby, ii. 2246 ff.
28. Cf. Epp. xxxi. 6 and lxxxi. 29 aestimare res, de quibus . . . cum rerum natura 
   deliberandum est.
29. The ancient Stoics defined Time as “extension of the world’s motion.” 
   The seasons were said to be “alive” because they depended on material 
   conditions. But the Stoics really acknowledged Time to be immaterial. The 
   same problem of corporeality was discussed with regard to the “good.”
30. Compare the schoolmaster of Juvenal (vii. 234 ff.), who must know
      Nutricem Anchisae, nomen patriamque novercae 
      Anchemoli, dicat quot Acestes vixerit annis, etc.,
   and Friedländer’s note.
31. A tradition, probably begun by the Greek comic-writers, and explained 
   by Professor Smyth (Greek Melic Poets, pp. 227 f.) as due to the more 
   independent position of women among the Aeolians. 
   Transcriber’s note: Gummere has euphemistically translated Seneca 
   here. The Latin is “in his an Sappho publica fuerit”, and the feminine 
   noun “publica” means “public woman”, i.e. a courtesan or prostitute. So 
   Gummere’s translation “whether Sappho was a bad lot” is more accurately 
   rendered as “whether Sappho was a prostitute.”
32. Marking supposedly spurious lines by the obelus, and using other signs 
   to indicate variations, repetitions, and interpolations. He paid special 
   attention to Homer, Pindar, Hesiod, and the tragedians.
33. The geometricians drew their figures in the dust or sand.
216   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

34. Originally, rhapsodists who recited from Homer; in general, “interpreters 
   and admirers—in short, the whole ‘spiritual kindred’—of Homer” (D. B. 
   Monro)
35. An ancient explanation of the (now disproved) authorship by Homer of 
   such poems as the Cypria, Little Iliad, Sack of Troy, etc.
36. In other words, the unchangeable, perfect Being of the universe is 
   contrasted with the mutable Non-Being of opinion and unreality.
37. i.e., the universe.
                   LETTER 89
         On the Parts of Philosophy     [1]
                       A

It is a useful fact that you wish to know, one which is essential to 
him who hastens after wisdom—namely, the parts of philosophy 
and the division of its huge bulk into separate members. For by 
studying the parts we can be brought more easily to understand 
the whole. I only wish that philosophy might come before our 
eyes in all her unity, just as the whole expanse of the firmament 
is spread out for us to gaze upon! It would be a sight closely 
resembling that of the firmament. For then surely philosophy 
would ravish all mortals with love for her;[2] we should aban-
don all those things which, in our ignorance of what is great, we 
believe to be great. Inasmuch, however, as this cannot fall to our 
lot, we must view philosophy just as men gaze upon the secrets 
of the firmament.
  The wise man’s mind, to be sure, embraces the whole frame-
work of philosophy, surveying it with no less rapid glance than 
our mortal eyes survey the heavens; we, however, who must break 
through the gloom, we whose vision fails even for that which 
is near at hand, can be shown with greater ease each separate 
object even though we cannot yet comprehend the universe. I 
shall therefore comply with your demand, and shall divide phi-
losophy into parts, but not into scraps. For it is useful that phi-
losophy should be divided, but not chopped into bits. Just as it is 
218 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

hard to take in what is indefinitely large, so it is hard to take in 
what is indefinitely small.
  The people are divided into tribes, the army into centuries. 
Whatever has grown to greater size is more easily identified if it is 
broken up into parts; but the parts, as I have remarked, must not 
be countless in number and diminutive in size. For over-analysis 
is faulty in precisely the same way as no analysis at all; whatever 
you cut so fine that it becomes dust is as good as blended into a 
mass again.[3]
  In the first place, therefore, if you approve, I shall draw the dis-
tinction between wisdom and philosophy. Wisdom is the perfect 
good of the human mind; philosophy is the love of wisdom, and 
the endeavour to attain it. The latter strives toward the goal which 
the former has already reached. And it is clear why philosophy 
was so called. For it acknowledges by its very name the object of 
its love.[4]
  Certain persons have defined wisdom as the knowledge of 
things divine and things human.[5] Still others say: “Wisdom is 
knowing things divine and things human, and their causes also.”[6] 
This added phrase seems to me to be superfluous, since the causes 
of things divine and things human are a part of the divine system. 
Philosophy also has been defined in various ways; some have 
called it “the study of virtue,”[7] others have referred to it as “a 
study of the way to amend the mind,”[8] and some have named it 
“the search for right reason.”
  One thing is practically settled, that there is some difference 
between philosophy and wisdom. Nor indeed is it possible that 
that which is sought and that which seeks are identical. As there 
is a great difference between avarice and wealth, the one being 
the subject of the craving and the other its object, so between 
philosophy and wisdom. For the one is a result and a reward of 
the other. Philosophy does the going, and wisdom is the goal.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 219

  Wisdom is that which the Greeks call σοφία. The Romans also 
were wont to use this word in the sense in which they now use 
“philosophy” also. This will be proved to your satisfaction by our 
old national plays, as well as by the epitaph that is carved on the 
tomb of Dossennus:[9]

     Pause, stranger, and read the wisdom of Dossennus.

  Certain of our school, however, although philosophy meant 
to them “the study of virtue,” and though virtue was the object 
sought and philosophy the seeker, have maintained nevertheless 
that the two cannot be sundered. For philosophy cannot exist 
without virtue, nor virtue without philosophy. Philosophy is the 
study of virtue, by means, however, of virtue itself; but neither 
can virtue exist without the study of itself, nor can the study of 
virtue exist without virtue itself. For it is not like trying to hit a 
target at long range, where the shooter and the object to be shot 
at are in different places. Nor, as roads which lead into a city, 
are the approaches to virtue situated outside virtue herself; the 
path by which one reaches virtue leads by way of virtue herself; 
philosophy and virtue cling closely together.
  The greatest authors, and the greatest number of authors, have 
maintained that there are three divisions of philosophy—moral, 
natural, and rational.[10] The first keeps the soul in order; the sec-
ond investigates the universe; the third works out the essential 
meanings of words, their combinations, and the proofs which 
keep falsehood from creeping in and displacing truth. But there 
have also been those who divided philosophy on the one hand 
into fewer divisions, on the other hand into more.
  Certain of the Peripatetic school have added a fourth division, 
“civil philosophy,” because it calls for a special sphere of activity 
and is interested in a different subject matter. Some have added 
a department for which they use the Greek term “economics,”[11] 
220 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

the science of managing one’s own household. Still others have 
made a distinct heading for the various kinds of life.[12] There is 
no one of these subdivisions, however, which will not be found 
under the branch called “moral” philosophy.
  The Epicureans[13] held that philosophy was twofold, natural and 
moral; they did away with the rational branch. Then, when they 
were compelled by the facts themselves to distinguish between 
equivocal ideas and to expose fallacies that lay hidden under the 
cloak of truth they themselves also introduced a heading to which 
they give the name “forensic and regulative,”[14] which is merely 
“rational” under another name, although they hold that this sec-
tion is accessory to the department of “natural” philosophy.
  The Cyrenaic[15] school abolished the natural as well as the 
rational department, and were content with the moral side alone; 
and yet these philosophers also include under another title that 
which they have rejected. For they divide moral philosophy into 
five parts: (1) What to avoid and what to seek, (2) The Passions, 
(3) Actions, (4) Causes, (5) Proofs. Now the causes of things really 
belong to the “natural” division, the proofs to the “rational.”
  Aristo[16] of Chios remarked that the natural and the rational 
were not only superfluous, but were also contradictory. He even 
limited the “moral,” which was all that was left to him; for he 
abolished that heading which embraced advice, maintaining that 
it was the business of the pedagogue, and not of the philosopher—
as if the wise man were anything else than the pedagogue of the 
human race!
  Since, therefore, philosophy is threefold, let us first begin to 
set in order the moral side. It has been agreed that this should 
be divided into three parts. First, we have the speculative[17] part, 
which assigns to each thing its particular function and weighs the 
worth of each; it is highest in point of utility. For what is so indis-
pensable as giving to everything its proper value? The second has 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 221

to do with impulse,[18] the third with actions.[19] For the first duty 
is to determine severally what things are worth; the second, to 
conceive with regard to them a regulated and ordered impulse; the 
third, to make your impulse and your actions harmonize, so that 
under all these conditions you may be consistent with yourself.
  If any of the three be defective, there is confusion in the rest 
also. For what benefit is there in having all things appraised, each 
in its proper relations, if you go to excess in your impulses? What 
benefit is there in having checked your impulses and in having 
your desires in your own control, if when you come to action 
you are unaware of the proper times and seasons, and if you do 
not know when, where, and how each action should be carried 
out? It is one thing to understand the merits and the values of 
facts, another thing to know the precise moment for action, and 
still another to curb impulses and to proceed, instead of rushing, 
toward what is to be done. Hence life is in harmony with itself 
only when action has not deserted impulse, and when impulse 
toward an object arises in each case from the worth of the object, 
being languid or more eager as the case may be, according as the 
objects which arouse it are worth seeking.
  The natural side of philosophy is twofold: bodily and non-
bodily.[20] Each is divided into its own grades of importance, so 
to speak. The topic concerning bodies deals, first, with these two 
grades: the creative and the created;[21] and the created things are 
the elements. Now this very topic of the elements, as some writers 
hold, is integral;[22] as others hold, it is divided into matter, the 
cause which moves all things, and the elements.
  It remains for me to divide rational philosophy into its parts. 
Now all speech is either continuous, or split up between ques-
tioner and answerer. It has been agreed upon that the former 
should be called rhetoric, and the latter dialectic. Rhetoric deals 
with words, and meanings, and arrangement. Dialectic is divided 
222 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

into two parts: words and their meanings, that is, into things 
which are said, and the words in which they are said. Then comes 
a subdivision of each—and it is of vast extent. Therefore I shall 
stop at this point, and

     But treat the climax of the story;[23]

for if I should take a fancy to give the subdivisions, my letter 
would become a debater’s handbook!
  I am not trying to discourage you, excellent Lucilius, from read-
ing on this subject, provided only that you promptly relate to 
conduct all that you have read.
  It is your conduct that you must hold in check; you must rouse 
what is languid in you, bind fast what has become relaxed, con-
quer what is obstinate, persecute your appetites, and the appetites 
of mankind, as much as you can; and to those who say: “How long 
will this unending talk go on?” answer with the words:
  “I ought to be asking you ‘How long will these unending sins 
of yours go on?’” Do you really desire my remedies to stop before 
your vices? But I shall speak of my remedies all the more, and 
just because you offer objections I shall keep on talking. Medicine 
begins to do good at the time when a touch makes the diseased 
body tingle with pain. I shall utter words that will help men even 
against their will. At times you should allow words other than 
compliments to reach your ears, and because as individuals you 
are unwilling to hear the truth, hear it collectively.
  How far will you extend the boundaries of your estates? An 
estate which held a nation is too narrow for a single lord. How 
far will you push forward your ploughed fields—you who are not 
content to confine the measure of your farms even within the 
amplitude of provinces?[24] You have noble rivers flowing down 
through your private grounds; you have mighty streams—bound-
aries of mighty nations—under your dominion from source to 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 223

outlet. This also is too little for you unless you also surround 
whole seas with your estates, unless your steward holds sway on 
the other side of the Adriatic, the Ionian, and the Aegean seas, 
unless the islands, homes of famous chieftains, are reckoned by 
you as the most paltry of possessions! Spread them as widely as 
you will, if only you may have as a “farm” what was once called a 
kingdom; make whatever you can your own, provided only that 
it is more than your neighbour’s!
  And now for a word with you, whose luxury spreads itself out 
as widely as the greed of those to whom I have just referred. To 
you I say: “Will this custom continue until there is no lake over 
which the pinnacles of your country-houses do not tower? Until 
there is no river whose banks are not bordered by your lordly 
structures? Wherever hot waters shall gush forth in rills, there you 
will be causing new resorts of luxury to rise. Wherever the shore 
shall bend into a bay, there will you straightway be laying founda-
tions, and, not content with any land that has not been made by 
art, you will bring the sea within your boundaries.[25] On every 
side let your house-tops flash in the sun, now set on mountain 
peaks where they command an extensive outlook over sea and 
land, now lifted from the plain to the height of mountains; build 
your manifold structures, your huge piles—you are nevertheless 
but individuals, and puny ones at that! What profit to you are your 
many bed-chambers? You sleep in one. No place is yours where 
you yourselves are not.”
  “Next I pass to you, you whose bottomless and insatiable maw 
explores on the one hand the seas, on the other the earth, with 
enormous toil hunting down your prey, now with hook, now with 
snare, now with nets of various kinds; no animal has peace except 
when you are cloyed with it. And how slight a portion of those 
banquets of yours, prepared for you by so many hands, do you 
taste with your pleasure-jaded palate! How slight a portion of all 
224   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

that game, whose taking was fraught with danger, does the mas-
ter’s sick and squeamish stomach relish? How slight a portion of 
all those shell-fish, imported from so far, slips down that insatiable 
gullet? Poor wretches, do you not know that your appetites are 
bigger than your bellies?”
   Talk in this way to other men—provided that while you talk 
you also listen; write in this way—provided that while you write 
you read, remembering that everything[26] you hear or read, is 
to be applied to conduct, and to the alleviation of passion’s fury. 
Study, not in order to add anything to your knowledge, but to 
make your knowledge better. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. See §§ 9 ff., which give the normal division.
  2. See Plato, especially Symposium 211 ff.
  3. i.e., an infinitely small divisio is the same as its opposite—confusio.
  4. “Love-of-Wisdom.”
  5. Θείων τε καὶ ἀνθρωπίνων ἐπιστήμη, quoted by Plutarch, De Plac 
   Phil. 874 E.
  6. Cicero, De Off. ii. 2. 5.
  7. The ἄσκησις ἀρετῆς of the earlier Stoics. Seneca (Frag. 17) also calls it 
   recta vivendi ratio.
  8. i.e., to make a bona mens out of a mala mens.
  9. It is doubtful whether this was the name of a real person, or a mere “Joe 
   Miller” type from the Fabula Atellana. The character in Horace, Ep. ii. 1. 
   173, is certainly the latter; and the testimony of Pliny (N. H. xiv. 15), who 
   quotes a line from a play called Acharistio, is not reliable.
10. i.e., logic.
11. i.e., “the management of the home.”
12. That is, of the various arts which deal with the departments of living, such 
   as generalship, politics, business, etc.
13. Frag. 242 Usener.
14. Seneca by de iudicio is translating the Greek adjective δικανικός, “that 
   which has to do with the courts of law,” and by de regula the word 
   κανονικός, “that which has to do with rules,” here the rules of logic. The 
   Epicureans used for logic κανονική, in contrast with Aristotle and his 
   successors, who used λογική. The Latinrationalis  is a translation of the 
   latter.
15. Led by Aristippus of Cyrene. As the Cynics developed into the Stoics, so 
   the Cyrenaics developed into the Epicureans.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    225

16. Frag. 357 von Arnim.
17. Seneca translates θεωρητική.
18. Ὸρμητική; the ὁρμαί, impetus, in the Stoic philosophy, are the natural 
   instincts, which require training and regulation before they can be 
   trusted.
19. Πρακτική.
20. Σωματική and ἀσώματος.
21. Ποιητικά and παθητικά.
22. i.e., has no subdivisions.
23. Vergil, Aeneid, i. 342.
24. For the thought compare Petronius, Sat. 48 nunc coniungere agellis 
   Siciliam volo, ut, cum Africam libuerit ire, per meos fines navigem.
25. i.e., by building embankments, etc. Cf. Horace, Od. ii. 18. 22 parum 
   locuples continente ripa.
26. Cf. § 18.
 THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS


           Seneca On the Happy Life 
              by Massimo Pigliucci

Massimo Pigliucci (Twitter: @mpigliucci) is the K.D. Irani Pro-
fessor of Philosophy at the City College of New York. He holds 
PhDs in genetics, evolutionary biology, and philosophy. He has 
written for many outlets, including The New York Times, and 
has written or edited ten books, including his latest, How to Be a 
Stoic: Using Ancient Philosophy to Live a Modern Life. His ongoing 
essays about Stoicism and its applications to modern life can be 
found at howtobeastoic.org.

“On the Happy Life” is one of Seneca’s mature essays, written to 
his brother Gallio in 58 CE, when he was 62 years of age. The 
main argument is that the pursuit of happiness (understood as 
eudaimonia) is the pursuit of reason. Or, in more standard Stoic 
fashion, that only the exercise of reason can lead to a flourishing 
life. It begins, appropriately enough: “All men, brother Gallio, 
wish to live happily, but are dull at perceiving exactly what it is 
that makes life happy.”
  Seneca then argues (in book I) that in order to seek under-
standing about what makes for a good life we should resist the 
temptation to go with common opinion, because it is often not 
well thought out. We should not live “by imitation of others,” as 
“the mob is ready to fight against reason in defense of its own mis-
take.” While the latter comment opens up the author to the usual 
        THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | MASSIMO PIGLIUCCI 227

accusation of elitism, I think we have all experienced plenty of 
what he’s talking about in recent years (pick your favorite populist 
cause, anywhere in the world, advanced without much thought 
and adopted with even less).
  Book II continues by enticing Gallio to embark on a reasoned 
quest on what makes for a happy life, and book III clarifies at 
the outset that Seneca doesn’t feel constrained by whatever the 
“official” Stoic doctrine may be: “When, however, I say ‘ours,’ I 
do not bind myself to any one of the chiefs of the Stoic school, 
for I too have a right to form my own opinion.” This is one of the 
things I most appreciate about Seneca: he’s not afraid to break 
ranks, if there is a sufficiently good reason to do so, an attitude 
that also emerges clearly in the early letters to Lucilius, where he 
often approvingly quotes Epicurus.
  In book IV, he unequivocally states: “The highest good is a 
mind which despises the accidents of fortune, and takes pleasure 
in virtue,” on which he then elaborates in Book V: “a man may be 
called ‘happy’ who, thanks to reason, has ceased either to hope 
or to fear: but rocks also feel neither fear nor sadness, nor do 
cattle, yet no one would call those things happy which cannot 
comprehend what happiness is.”
  We have here an affirmation of the Stoic idea that happiness 
is about using reason to overcome fear and hope (in the sense 
of going after things that are outside of one’s control), and yet 
also the realization that that’s clearly not enough, since inanimate 
things (not so sure that cattle cannot feel fear, though very likely 
not hope) are in a similar situation by default, but it would make 
no sense to call them “happy.”
  The same book ends with a dig at the Epicureans, or at hedonists 
more generally: “what mortal that retains any traces of human 
origin would wish to be tickled day and night, and, neglecting his 
mind, to devote himself to bodily enjoyments?” Which reminds 
228 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

me of a modern thought experiment in philosophy aiming at 
making the same point, Robert Nozick’s so-called experience 
machine. (Or maybe Woody Allen’s famous Orgasmatron in the 
movie Sleeper.)
  Book VI rather elegantly takes up one of the standard objec-
tions against the Stoic idea that the happy life is one of reason, not 
pleasure: “‘But,’ says our adversary, ‘the mind also will have plea-
sures of its own.’ Let it have them, then, and let it sit in judgment 
over luxury and pleasures… No insane person can be happy, and 
no one can be sane if he regards what is injurious as the highest 
good and strives to obtain it. The happy man, therefore, is he who 
can make a right judgment in all things.”
  This is an interesting and subtle point: sure, under certain 
conceptions of “pleasure” even the Stoic Sage might be said to 
take pleasure in the rightness of her judgments. But Seneca uses 
that concession to turn the tables against the critics: see, right 
judgment is necessary even to appreciate pleasure, so reason is 
paramount.
  In book VII he further elaborates on the distinction between 
pleasure and reason: “if they were entirely inseparable, we should 
not see some things to be pleasant, but not honorable, and others 
most honorable indeed, but hard and only to be attained by suf-
fering.” Now, one could reasonably reject the distinction Seneca 
is trying to make, but then would be hard pressed to explain a 
large range of human behaviors where people do seem to genu-
inely prefer something despite its unpleasantness, for principled 
reasons, because they think it is good and honorable.
  Book VIII gets to the heart of the matter with the claim that to 
live happily is the same thing as to live by following nature, which 
Seneca sets out to explain. He argues that internal harmony is 
crucial to eudaimonia, and that it cannot be obtained by seeking 
        THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | MASSIMO PIGLIUCCI 229

pleasures, which are always in conflict with each other, but only 
by pursuing virtue:
  “Such a mind, when it has ranged itself in order, made its vari-
ous parts agree together, and, if I may so express myself, harmo-
nized them, has attained to the highest good… You may, then, 
boldly declare that the highest good is singleness of mind: for 
where agreement and unity are, there must the virtues be: it is 
the vices that are at war one with another.”
  Book IX takes up a related charge to the one above by an imagi-
nary critic, essentially that of hypocrisy regarding the relationship 
between pleasure and virtue:
  “‘But,’ says our adversary, ‘you yourself only practice virtue 
because you hope to obtain some pleasure from it.’ In the first 
place, even though virtue may afford us pleasure, still we do not 
seek after her on that account: for she does not bestow this, but 
bestows this to boot, nor is this the end for which she labors, but 
her labor wins this also, although it be directed to another end 
… Pleasure is not the reward or the cause of virtue, but comes 
in addition to it; nor do we choose virtue because she gives us 
pleasure, but she gives us pleasure also if we choose her.”
  I find this passage to be absolutely beautiful. Yes, virtue does 
give a kind of pleasure, but it is not sought because of that, it is 
just a bonus that is granted to the virtuous person.
  And here is another stunning passage, where Seneca rebukes 
his imaginary interlocutor for essentially asking whether this is 
all there is to life and Stoic philosophy: “Does this not appear 
great enough, when I tell you that the highest good is an unyield-
ing strength of mind, wisdom, magnanimity, sound judgment, 
freedom, harmony, beauty? Do you still ask me for something 
greater, of which these may be regarded as the attributes? Why 
do you talk of pleasures to me? I am seeking to find what is good 
for man, not for his belly.”
230 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  Book X ends with perhaps the sharpest contrast I’ve read 
between Epicureanism and Stoicism: “You devote yourself to plea-
sures, I check them; you indulge in pleasure, I use it; you think 
that it is the highest good, I do not even think it to be good: for 
the sake of pleasure I do nothing, you do everything.” Well, I’m 
glad we’re clear on that!
  Skipping to book XII, we find a nicely balanced defense of Epi-
cureanism from the apparently common abuse that many made 
of the term (which is still true today, indeed arguably even more 
so than in the time of Seneca): “Men are not encouraged by Epi-
curus to run riot, but the vicious hide their excesses in the lap of 
philosophy, and flock to the schools in which they hear the praises 
of pleasure. They do not consider how sober and temperate—for 
so, by Hercules, I believe it to be—that ‘pleasure’ of Epicurus is, 
but they rush at his mere name, seeking to obtain some protection 
and cloak for their vices… The reason why that praise which your 
school lavishes upon pleasure is so hurtful, is because the honor-
able part of its teaching passes unnoticed, but the degrading part 
is seen by all.” This is a good example of Seneca’s fairmindedness, 
as well as of his compelling style of argumentation, whereby he 
manages to both strike a point in favor of his opponents and one 
against them in a single sentence.
  This defense of Epicurus —something that, for sure, Epictetus 
would never have uttered—continues in book XIII: “I myself 
believe, though my Stoic comrades would be unwilling to hear 
me say so, that the teaching of Epicurus was upright and holy, 
and even, if you examine it narrowly, stern.”
  But book XIV goes back to a critique of the pleasure principle: 
“those who have permitted pleasure to lead the van, have neither 
one nor the other: for they lose virtue altogether, and yet they do 
not possess pleasure, but are possessed by it.”
        THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | MASSIMO PIGLIUCCI 231

  In XV Seneca explains why one cannot simply combine virtue 
and pleasure and call it a day. The problem is that sooner or later 
pleasure will pull you toward unvirtuous territory: “You do not 
afford virtue a solid immoveable base if you bid it stand on what 
is unsteady.”
  Later, in book XVIII, he confronts directly the accusation that 
is still leveled to him 2000 years later: of not practicing what he 
preaches. His response: “I am not a wise man, and I will not be 
one in order to feed your spite: so do not require me to be on a 
level with the best of men, but merely to be better than the worst: 
I am satisfied, if every day I take away something from my vices 
and correct my faults. I have not arrived at perfect soundness of 
mind, indeed, I never shall arrive at it.”
  Regardless of what one thinks of Seneca the historical figure, 
the above words resonate very powerfully with me: indeed, I am 
not the best of men, I’m just trying to be better than I was yester-
day. And sometimes even that is difficult enough.
  Book XX begins with a defense of philosophy, obviously very 
much needed even in those early times: “‘Philosophers do not 
carry into effect all that they teach.’ No; but they effect much 
good by their teaching.” The same, of course, could be said of 
practitioners of religions: at their best they do effect much good, 
even though on several occasions even their leaders fall far short 
of the ideal.
  The same book actually provides a list of rules Seneca is trying 
to live buy. It is worth considering it in full:

•  I will look upon death or upon a comedy with the same 
 expression of countenance.

•  I will despise riches when I have them as much as when I 
 have them not.
232 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

•  I will view all lands as though they belong to me, and my 
  own as though they belonged to all mankind.

•  Whatever I may possess, I will neither hoard it greedily nor 
  squander it recklessly.

•  I will do nothing because of public opinion, but everything 
  because of conscience.

•  I will be agreeable with my friends, gentle and mild to my 
  foes: I will grant pardon before I am asked for it, and will 
  meet the wishes of honorable men half way.

•  Whenever either Nature demands my breath again, or reason 
  bids me dismiss it, I will quit this life, calling all to witness 
  that I have loved a good conscience, and good pursuits.

  In book XXI Seneca goes back to answering his critics, this time 
explaining the Stoic attitude (and particularly his own, since he 
was very wealthy) toward being rich: “[the wise person’s] answer 
is, that these things ought to be despised, not that he should not 
possess them, but that he should not possess them with fear and 
trembling: he does not drive them away from him, but when they 
leave him he follows after them unconcernedly.”
  From XXII, on the same issue: “If my riches leave me, they will 
carry away with them nothing except themselves… my riches 
belong to me, you belong to jour riches.”
  At the beginning of XXIII he recaps: “Cease, then, forbidding 
philosophers to possess money: no one has condemned wisdom 
to poverty. The philosopher may own ample wealth, but will not 
own wealth that which has been torn from another, or which 
is stained with another’s blood: his must be obtained without 
wronging any man, and without its being won by base means.”
        THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | MASSIMO PIGLIUCCI 233

  Phew! Now I can enjoy my CUNY salary and book royalties in 
peace! Seriously, though, this is a forceful reminder that Stoicism 
is not Cynicism, and it isn’t about asceticism. And notice the posi-
tive message here, in the second part of the quote: philosophers do 
not have to be poor, but they do have to get their wealth honestly 
and virtuously, like everyone else, one would want to add.
  In XXIV Seneca makes a plea for magnanimity and generos-
ity, in a remarkably cosmopolitan fashion: “Nature bids me do 
good to mankind—what difference does it make whether they 
be slaves or freemen, free-born or emancipated, whether their 
freedom be legally acquired or bestowed by arrangement among 
friends? Wherever there is a human being, there is an opportunity 
for a benefit.”
  Book XXV is devoted to explaining the apparently paradoxical 
Stoic concept of preferred indifferents: “place me where gold and 
silver plate is used for the commonest purposes; I shall not think 
more of myself because of things which even though they are in 
my house are yet no part of me. Take me away to the wooden 
bridge and put me down there among the beggars: I shall not 
despise myself because I am sitting among those who hold out 
their hands for alms.”
  But the Stoic does have preferences: “I prefer, as far as my 
feelings go, to show myself in public dressed in woolen and in 
robes of office, rather than with naked or half-covered shoul-
ders… I prefer to have to regulate joys than to stifle sorrows… 
In spite of all this, I had rather be a conqueror than a captive. 
I despise the whole dominion of Fortune, but still, if I were 
given my choice, I would choose its better parts. I shall make 
whatever befalls me become a good thing, but I prefer that what 
befalls me should be comfortable and pleasant and unlikely to 
cause me annoyance.” 
234 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  Why is this apparently so difficult to understand for critics 
of Stoicism? Here is the answer: “I do not talk one way and live 
another: but you do not rightly understand what I say: the sound 
of my words alone reaches your ears, you do not try to find
                   LETTER 90
      On the Part Played by Philosophy 
             in the Progress of Man
                       A

Who can doubt, my dear Lucilius, that life is the gift of the 
immortal gods, but that living well[1] is the gift of philosophy? 
Hence the idea that our debt to philosophy is greater than our 
debt to the gods, in proportion as a good life is more of a benefit 
than mere life, would be regarded as correct, were not philosophy 
itself a boon which the gods have bestowed upon us. They have 
given the knowledge thereof to none, but the faculty of acquiring 
it they have given to all.
  For if they had made philosophy also a general good, and if we 
were gifted with understanding at our birth, wisdom would have 
lost her best attribute—that she is not one of the gifts of fortune. 
For as it is, the precious and noble characteristic of wisdom is that 
she does not advance to meet us, that each man is indebted to 
himself for her, and that we do not seek her at the hands of others.
  What would there be in philosophy worthy of your respect, if 
she were a thing that came by bounty?
  Her sole function is to discover the truth about things divine 
and things human. From her side religion never departs, nor duty, 
nor justice, nor any of the whole company of virtues which cling 
together in close-united fellowship. Philosophy has taught us to 
worship that which is divine, to love that which is human;[2] she 
236 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

has told us that with the gods lies dominion, and among men, 
fellowship. This fellowship remained unspoiled for a long time, 
until avarice tore the community asunder and became the cause 
of poverty, even in the case of those whom she herself had most 
enriched. For men cease to possess all things the moment they 
desire all things for their own.
  But the first men and those who sprang from them, still 
unspoiled, followed nature, having one man as both their leader 
and their law, entrusting themselves to the control of one better 
than themselves. For nature has the habit of subjecting the weaker 
to the stronger. Even among the dumb animals those which are 
either biggest or fiercest hold sway. It is no weakling bull that leads 
the herd; it is one that has beaten the other males by his might and 
his muscle. In the case of elephants, the tallest goes first; among 
men, the best is regarded as the highest. That is why it was to the 
mind that a ruler was assigned; and for that reason the greatest 
happiness rested with those peoples among whom a man could 
not be the more powerful unless he were the better. For that man 
can safely accomplish what he will who thinks he can do nothing 
except what he ought to do.
  Accordingly, in that age which is maintained to be the golden 
age,[3] Posidonius[4] holds that the government was under the 
jurisdiction of the wise. They kept their hands under control, 
and protected the weaker from the stronger. They gave advice, 
both to do and not to do; they showed what was useful and what 
was useless. Their forethought provided that their subjects should 
lack nothing; their bravery warded off dangers; their kindness 
enriched and adorned their subjects. For them ruling was a ser-
vice, not an exercise of royalty. No ruler tried his power against 
those to whom he owed the beginnings of his power; and no one 
had the inclination, or the excuse, to do wrong, since the ruler 
ruled well and the subject obeyed well, and the king could utter no 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 237

greater threat against disobedient subjects than that they should 
depart from the kingdom.
  But when once vice stole in and kingdoms were transformed 
into tyrannies, a need arose for laws and these very laws were in 
turn framed by the wise. Solon, who established Athens upon a 
firm basis by just laws, was one of the seven men renowned for 
their wisdom.[5] Had Lycurgus lived in the same period, an eighth 
would have been added to that hallowed number seven. The laws 
of Zaleucus and Charondas are praised; it was not in the forum 
or in the offices of skilled counsellors, but in the silent and holy 
retreat of Pythagoras, that these two men learned the principles 
of justice which they were to establish in Sicily (which at that time 
was prosperous) and throughout Grecian Italy.
  Up to this point I agree with Posidonius; but that philosophy 
discovered the arts of which life makes use in its daily round[6] I 
refuse to admit. Nor will I ascribe to it an artisan’s glory. Posido-
nius says: “When men were scattered over the earth, protected 
by eaves or by the dug-out shelter of a cliff or by the trunk of a 
hollow tree, it was philosophy that taught them to build houses.” 
But I, for my part, do not hold that philosophy devised these 
shrewdly-contrived dwellings of ours which rise story upon story, 
where city crowds against city, any more than that she invented 
the fish-preserves, which are enclosed for the purpose of saving 
men’s gluttony from having to run the risk of storms, and in order 
that, no matter how wildly the sea is raging, luxury may have its 
safe harbours in which to fatten fancy breeds of fish.
  What! Was it philosophy that taught the use of keys and bolts? 
Nay, what was that except giving a hint to avarice? Was it philoso-
phy that erected all these towering tenements, so dangerous to the 
persons who dwell in them? Was it not enough for man to provide 
himself a roof of any chance covering, and to contrive for himself 
some natural retreat without the help of art and without trouble? 
238 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

Believe me, that was a happy age, before the days of architects, 
before the days of builders!
  All this sort of thing was born when luxury was being born—
this matter of cutting timbers square and cleaving a beam with 
unerring hand as the saw made its way over the marked-out line.

     The primal man with wedges split his wood.[7]

  For they were not preparing a roof for a future banquet-ball; 
for no such use did they carry the pine trees or the firs along the 
trembling streets[8] with a long row of drays—merely to fasten 
thereon panelled ceilings heavy with gold.
  Forked poles erected at either end propped up their houses. 
With close-packed branches and with leaves heaped up and laid 
sloping they contrived a drainage for even the heaviest rains. 
Beneath such dwellings, they lived, but they lived in peace. A 
thatched roof once covered free men; under marble and gold 
dwells slavery.
  On another point also I differ from Posidonius, when he holds 
that mechanical tools were the invention of wise men. For on that 
basis one might maintain that those were wise who taught the arts

     Of setting traps for game, and liming twigs

     For birds, and girdling mighty woods with dogs.[9]

  It was man’s ingenuity, not his wisdom, that discovered all these 
devices.
  And I also differ from him when he says that wise men discov-
ered our mines of iron and copper, “when the earth, scorched by 
forest fires, melted the veins of ore which lay near the surface and 
caused the metal to gush forth.”[10] Nay, the sort of men who dis-
cover such things are the sort of men who are busied with them.
  Nor do I consider this question so subtle as Posidonius thinks, 
namely, whether the hammer or the tongs came first into use. 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 239

They were both invented by some man whose mind was nimble 
and keen, but not great or exalted; and the same holds true of any 
other discovery which can only be made by means of a bent body 
and of a mind whose gaze is upon the ground.
  The wise man was easy-going in his way of living. And why not? 
Even in our own times he would prefer to be as little cumbered 
as possible.
  How, I ask, can you consistently admire both Diogenes and 
Daedalus? Which of these two seems to you a wise man—the 
one who devised the saw, or the one who, on seeing a boy drink 
water from the hollow of his hand, forthwith took his cup from 
his wallet and broke it, upbraiding himself with these words:[11] 
“Fool that I am, to have been carrying superfluous baggage all 
this time!” and then curled himself up in his tub and lay down 
to sleep?
  In these our own times, which man, pray, do you deem the 
wiser—the one who invents a process for spraying saffron per-
fumes to a tremendous height from hidden pipes, who fills or 
empties canals by a sudden rush of waters, who so cleverly con-
structs a dining-room with a ceiling of movable panels that it 
presents one pattern after another, the roof changing as often 
as the courses[12]—or the one who proves to others, as well as to 
himself, that nature has laid upon us no stern and difficult law 
when she tells us that we can live without the marble-cutter and 
the engineer, that we can clothe ourselves without traffic in silk 
fabrics, that we can have everything that is indispensable to our 
use, provided only that we are content with what the earth has 
placed on its surface? If mankind were willing to listen to this 
sage, they would know that the cook is as superfluous to them 
as the soldier.
  Those were wise men, or at any rate like the wise, who found 
the care of the body a problem easy to solve. The things that are 
240 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

indispensable require no elaborate pains for their acquisition; it 
is only the luxuries that call for labour. Follow nature, and you 
will need no skilled craftsmen.
  Nature did not wish us to be harassed. For whatever she forced 
upon us, she equipped us. “But cold cannot be endured by the 
naked body.” What then? Are there not the skins of wild beasts 
and other animals, which can protect us well enough, and more 
than enough, from the cold? Do not many tribes cover their bod-
ies with the bark of trees? Are not the feathers of birds sewn 
together to serve for clothing? Even at the present day does not a 
large portion of the Scythian tribe garb itself in the skins of foxes 
and mice, soft to the touch and impervious to the winds?
  “For all that, men must have some thicker protection than the 
skin, in order to keep off the heat of the sun in summer.” What 
then? Has not antiquity produced many retreats which, hollowed 
out either by the damage wrought by time or by any other occur-
rence you will, have opened into caverns? What then? Did not 
the very first-comers take twigs[13] and weave them by hand into 
wicker mats, smear them with common mud, and then with 
stubble and other wild grasses construct a roof, and thus pass 
their winters secure, the rains carried off by means of the sloping 
gables? What then? Do not the peoples on the edge of the Syrtes 
dwell in dug-out houses and indeed all the tribes who, because 
of the too fierce blaze of the sun, possess no protection sufficient 
to keep off the heat except the parched soil itself?
  Nature was not so hostile to man that, when she gave all the 
other animals an easy rôle in life, she made it impossible for him 
alone to live without all these artifices. None of these was imposed 
upon us by her; none of them had to be painfully sought out that 
our lives might be prolonged. All things were ready for us at our 
birth; it is we that have made everything difficult for ourselves, 
through our disdain for what is easy. Houses, shelter, creature 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 241

comforts, food, and all that has now become the source of vast 
trouble, were ready at hand, free to all, and obtainable for trifling 
pains. For the limit everywhere corresponded to the need; it is we 
that have made all those things valuable, we that have made them 
admired, we that have caused them to be sought for by extensive 
and manifold devices.
  Nature suffices for what she demands. Luxury has turned her 
back upon nature; each day she expands herself, in all the ages she 
has been gathering strength, and by her wit promoting the vices. 
At first, luxury began to lust for what nature regarded as super-
fluous, then for that which was contrary to nature; and finally 
she made the soul a bondsman to the body, and bade it be an 
utter slave to the body’s lusts. All these crafts by which the city is 
patrolled—or shall I say kept in uproar—are but engaged in the 
body’s business; time was when all things were offered to the body 
as to a slave, but now they are made ready for it as for a master. 
Accordingly, hence have come the workshops of the weavers and 
the carpenters; hence the savoury smells of the professional cooks; 
hence the wantonness of those who teach wanton postures, and 
wanton and affected singing. For that moderation which nature 
prescribes, which limits our desires by resources restricted to our 
needs, has abandoned the field; it has now come to this—that to 
want only what is enough is a sign both of boorishness and of 
utter destitution.
  It is hard to believe, my dear Lucilius, how easily the charm of 
eloquence wins even great men away from the truth. Take, for 
example, Posidonius—who, in my estimation, is of the number of 
those who have contributed most to philosophy—when he wishes 
to describe the art of weaving. He tells how, first, some threads are 
twisted and some drawn out from the soft, loose mass of wool; 
next, how the upright warp keeps the threads stretched by means 
of hanging weights; then, how the inserted thread of the woof, 
242 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

which softens the hard texture of the web which holds it fast on 
either side, is forced by the batten to make a compact union with 
the warp. He maintains that even the weaver’s art was discovered 
by wise men, forgetting that the more complicated art which he 
describes was invented in later days—the art wherein

     The web is bound to frame; asunder now

     The reed doth part the warp. Between the threads
     Is shot the woof by pointed shuttles borne;
     The broad comb’s well-notched teeth then drive it home.[14]

  Suppose he had had the opportunity of seeing the weaving of 
our own day, which produces the clothing that will conceal noth-
ing, the clothing which affords—I will not say no protection to 
the body, but none even to modesty!
  Posidonius then passes on to the farmer. With no less eloquence 
he describes the ground which is broken up and crossed again by 
the plough, so that the earth, thus loosened, may allow freer play 
to the roots; then the seed is sown, and the weeds plucked out by 
hand, lest any chance growth or wild plant spring up and spoil the 
crop. This trade also, he declares, is the creation of the wise—just 
as if cultivators of the soil were not even at the present day dis-
covering countless new methods of increasing the soil’s fertility!
  Furthermore, not confining his attention to these arts, he even 
degrades the wise man by sending him to the mill. For he tells 
us how the sage, by imitating the processes of nature, began to 
make bread. “The grain,”[15] he says, “once taken into the mouth, 
is crushed by the flinty teeth, which meet in hostile encounter, 
and whatever grain slips out the tongue turns back to the selfsame 
teeth. Then it is blended into a mass, that it may the more easily 
pass down the slippery throat. When this has readied the stomach, 
it is digested by the stomach’s equable heat; then, and not till then, 
it is assimilated with the body.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 243

  Following this pattern,” he goes on, “someone placed two rough 
stones, the one above the other, in imitation of the teeth, one set of 
which is stationary and awaits the motion of the other set. Then by 
the rubbing of the one stone against the other, the grain is crushed 
and brought back again and again, until by frequent rubbing it is 
reduced to powder. Then this man sprinkled the meal with water, 
and by continued manipulation subdued the mass and moulded 
the loaf. This loaf was, at first, baked by hot ashes or by an earthen 
vessel glowing hot; later on ovens were gradually discovered and 
the other devices whose heat will render obedience to the sage’s 
will.” Posidonius came very near declaring that even the cobbler’s 
trade was the discovery of the wise man.
  Reason did indeed devise all these things, but it was not right 
reason. It was man, but not the wise man, that discovered them; 
just as they invented ships, in which we cross rivers and seas—
ships fitted with sails for the purpose of catching the force of the 
winds, ships with rudders added at the stern in order to turn the 
vessel’s course in one direction or another. The model followed 
was the fish, which steers itself by its tail, and by its slightest 
motion on this side or on that bends its swift course.
  “But,” says Posidonius, “the wise man did indeed discover all 
these things; they were, however, too petty for him to deal with 
himself and so he entrusted them to his meaner assistants.” Not 
so; these early inventions were thought out by no other class of 
men than those who have them in charge today. We know that 
certain devices have come to light only within our own memory—
such as the use of windows which admit the clear light through 
transparent tiles,[16] and such as the vaulted baths, with pipes 
let into their walls for the purpose of diffusing the heat which 
maintains an even temperature in their lowest as well as in their 
highest spaces. Why need I mention the marble with which our 
temples and our private houses are resplendent? Or the rounded 
244 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

and polished masses of stone by means of which we erect colon-
nades and buildings roomy enough for nations? Or our signs[17] 
for whole words, which enable us to take down a speech, however 
rapidly uttered, matching speed of tongue by speed of hand? All 
this sort of thing has been devised by the lowest grade of slaves.
  Wisdom’s seat is higher; she trains not the hands, but is mistress 
of our minds.
  Would you know what wisdom has brought forth to light, what 
she has accomplished? It is not the graceful poses of the body, or 
the varied notes produced by horn and flute, whereby the breath 
is received and, as it passes out or through, is transformed into 
voice. It is not wisdom that contrives arms, or walls, or instru-
ments useful in war; nay, her voice is for peace, and she summons 
all mankind to concord.
  It is not she, I maintain, who is the artisan of our indispensable 
implements of daily use. Why do you assign to her such petty 
things? You see in her the skilled artisan of life. The other arts, it 
is true, wisdom has under her control; for he whom life serves is 
also served by the things which equip life. But wisdom’s course 
is toward the state of happiness; thither she guides us, thither she 
opens the way for us.
  She shows us what things are evil and what things are seem-
ingly evil; she strips our minds of vain illusion. She bestows upon 
us a greatness which is substantial, but she represses the great-
ness which is inflated, and showy but filled with emptiness; and 
she does not permit us to be ignorant of the difference between 
what is great and what is but swollen; nay, she delivers to us the 
knowledge of the whole of nature and of her own nature. She 
discloses to us what the gods are and of what sort they are; what 
are the nether gods, the household deities, and the protecting 
spirits; what are the souls which have been endowed with lasting 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 245

life and have been admitted to the second class of divinities,[18] 
where is their abode and what their activities, powers, and will.
  Such are wisdom’s rites of initiation, by means of which is 
unlocked, not a village shrine, but the vast temple of all the gods—
the universe itself, whose true apparitions and true aspects she 
offers to the gaze of our minds. For the vision of our eyes is too 
dull for sights so great.
  Then she goes back to the beginnings of things, to the eternal 
Reason[19] which was imparted to the whole, and to the force 
which inheres in all the seeds of things, giving them the power to 
fashion each thing according to its kind. Then wisdom begins to 
inquire about the soul, whence it comes, where it dwells, how long 
it abides, into how many divisions it falls. Finally, she has turned 
her attention from the corporeal to the incorporeal, and has 
closely examined truth and the marks whereby truth is known, 
inquiring next how that which is equivocal can be distinguished 
from the truth, whether in life or in language; for in both are ele-
ments of the false mingled with the true.
  It is my opinion that the wise man has not withdrawn himself, 
as Posidonius thinks, from those arts which we were discussing, 
but that he never took them up at all.[20] For he would have judged 
that nothing was worth discovering that he would not afterwards 
judge to be worth using always. He would not take up things 
which would have to be laid aside.
  “But Anacharsis,” says Posidonius, “invented the potter’s wheel, 
whose whirling gives shape to vessels.”[21] Then because the pot-
ter’s wheel is mentioned in Homer, people prefer to believe that 
Homer’s verses are false rather than the story of Posidonius! But 
I maintain that Anacharsis was not the creator of this wheel; and 
even if he was, although he was a wise man when he invented 
it, yet he did not invent it qua “wise man”—just as there are a 
great many things which wise men do as men, not as wise men. 
246 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

Suppose, for example, that a wise man is exceedingly fleet of foot; 
he will outstrip all the runners in the race by virtue of being fleet, 
not by virtue of his wisdom. I should like to show Posidonius 
some glass-blower who by his breath moulds the glass into mani-
fold shapes which could scarcely be fashioned by the most skilful 
hand. Nay, these discoveries have been made since we men have 
ceased to discover wisdom.
  But Posidonius again remarks. “Democritus is said to have 
discovered the arch,[22] whose effect was that the curving line of 
stones, which gradually lean toward each other, is bound together 
by the keystone.” I am inclined to pronounce this statement false. 
For there must have been, before Democritus, bridges and gate-
ways in which the curvature did not begin until about the top.
  It seems to have quite slipped your memory that this same 
Democritus discovered how ivory could be softened, how, by boil-
ing, a pebble could be transformed into an emerald,[23]—the same 
process used even today for colouring stones which are found to 
be amenable to this treatment! It may have been a wise man who 
discovered all such things, but he did not discover them by virtue 
of being a wise man; for he does many things which we see done 
just as well, or even more skilfully and dexterously, by men who 
are utterly lacking in sagacity.
  Do you ask what, then, the wise man has found out and what 
he has brought to light? First of all there is truth, and nature; and 
nature he has not followed as the other animals do, with eyes too 
dull to perceive the divine in it. In the second place, there is the 
law of life, and life he has made to conform to universal principles; 
and he has taught us, not merely to know the gods, but to follow 
them, and to welcome the gifts of chance precisely as if they were 
divine commands. He has forbidden us to give heed to false opin-
ions, and has weighed the value of each thing by a true standard 
of appraisement. He has condemned those pleasures with which 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 247

remorse is intermingled, and has praised those goods which will 
always satisfy; and he has published the truth abroad that he is 
most happy who has no need of happiness, and that he is most 
powerful who has power over himself.
  I am not speaking of that philosophy which has placed the 
citizen outside his country and the gods outside the universe, 
and which has bestowed virtue upon pleasure,[24] but rather of 
that philosophy which counts nothing good except what is hon-
ourable—one which cannot be cajoled by the gifts either of man 
or fortune, one whose value is that it cannot be bought for any 
value. That this philosophy existed in such a rude age, when the 
arts and crafts were still unknown and when useful things could 
only be learned by use—this I refuse to believe.
  Next there came the fortune-favoured period when the boun-
ties of nature lay open to all, for men’s indiscriminate use, before 
avarice and luxury had broken the bonds which held mortals 
together, and they, abandoning their communal existence, had 
separated and turned to plunder. The men of the second age were 
not wise men, even though they did what wise men should do.[25]
  Indeed, there is no other condition of the human race that 
anyone would regard more highly; and if God should commis-
sion a man to fashion earthly creatures and to bestow institutions 
upon peoples, this man would approve of no other system than 
that which obtained among the men of that age, when

     No ploughman tilled the soil, nor was it right

     To portion off or bound one’s property.
     Men shared their gains, and earth more freely gave
     Her riches to her sons who sought them not.[26]

  What race of men was ever more blest than that race? They 
enjoyed all nature in partnership. Nature sufficed for them, now 
the guardian, as before she was the parent, of all; and this her gift 
248 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

consisted of the assured possession by each man of the common 
resources. Why should I not even call that race the richest among 
mortals, since you could not find a poor person among them?
  But avarice broke in upon a condition so happily ordained, and, 
by its eagerness to lay something away and to turn it to its own 
private use, made all things the property of others, and reduced 
itself from boundless wealth to straitened need. It was avarice that 
introduced poverty and, by craving much, lost all.
  And so, although she now tries to make good her loss, although 
she adds one estate to another, evicting a neighbour either by 
buying him out or by wronging him, although she extends her 
country-seats to the size of provinces and defines ownership as 
meaning extensive travel through one’s own property—in spite 
of all these efforts of hers no enlargement of our boundaries will 
bring us back to the condition from which we have departed.
  When there is no more that we can do, we shall possess much; 
but we once possessed the whole world!
  The very soil was more productive when untilled, and yielded 
more than enough for peoples who refrained from despoiling one 
another. Whatever gift nature had produced, men found as much 
pleasure in revealing it to another as in having discovered it. It 
was possible for no man either to surpass another or to fall short 
of him; what there was, was divided among unquarrelling friends. 
Not yet had the stronger begun to lay hands upon the weaker; not 
yet had the miser, by hiding away what lay before him, begun to 
shut off his neighbour from even the necessities of life; each cared 
as much for his neighbour as for himself.
  Armour lay unused, and the hand, unstained by human blood, 
had turned all its hatred against wild beasts. The men of that 
day, who had found in some dense grove protection against the 
sun, and security against the severity of winter or of rain in their 
mean hiding-places, spent their lives under the branches of the 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 249

trees and passed tranquil nights without a sigh. Care vexes us 
in our purple, and routs us from our beds with the sharpest of 
goads; but how soft was the sleep the hard earth bestowed upon 
the men of that day!
  No fretted and panelled ceilings hung over them, but as they lay 
beneath the open sky the stars glided quietly above them, and the 
firmament, night’s noble pageant, marched swiftly by, conducting 
its mighty task in silence. For them by day, as well as by night, 
the visions of this most glorious abode were free and open. It was 
their joy to watch the constellations as they sank from mid-heaven 
and others, again, as they rose from their hidden abodes. 
  What else but joy could it be to wander among the marvels 
which dotted the heavens far and wide? But you of the present day 
shudder at every sound your houses make, and as you sit among 
your frescoes the slightest creak makes you shrink in terror. They 
had no houses as big as cities. The air, the breezes blowing free 
through the open spaces, the flitting shade of crag or tree, springs 
crystal-clear and streams not spoiled by man’s work, whether by 
water-pipe[27] or by any confinement of the channel, but running 
at will, and meadows beautiful without the use of art—amid such 
scenes were their rude homes, adorned with rustic hand. Such 
a dwelling was in accordance with nature; therein it was a joy to 
live, fearing neither the dwelling itself nor for its safety. In these 
days, however, our houses constitute a large portion of our dread.
  But no matter how excellent and guileless was the life of the 
men of that age, they were not wise men; for that title is reserved 
for the highest achievement. Still, I would not deny that they 
were men of lofty spirit and—I may use the phrase—fresh from 
the gods. For there is no doubt that the world produced a bet-
ter progeny before it was yet worn out. However, not all were 
endowed with mental faculties of highest perfection, though in 
all cases their native powers were more sturdy than ours and 
250 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

more fitted for toil. For nature does not bestow virtue; it is an art 
to become good.
  They, at least, searched not in the lowest dregs of the earth for 
gold, nor yet for silver or transparent stones; and they still were 
merciful even to the dumb animals—so far removed was that 
epoch from the custom of slaying man by man, not in anger or 
through fear, but just to make a show! They had as yet no embroi-
dered garments nor did they weave cloth of gold; gold was not 
yet even mined.
  What, then, is the conclusion of the matter? It was by reason of 
their ignorance of things that the men of those days were inno-
cent; and it makes a great deal of difference whether one wills not 
to sin or has not the knowledge to sin.[28] Justice was unknown to 
them, unknown prudence, unknown also self-control and brav-
ery; but their rude life possessed certain qualities akin to all these 
virtues. Virtue is not vouchsafed to a soul unless that soul has 
been trained and taught, and by unremitting practice brought to 
perfection. For the attainment of this boon, but not in the pos-
session of it, were we born; and even in the best of men, before 
you refine them by instruction, there is but the stuff of virtue, not 
virtue itself. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Cf. Plato, Crito 48, “not life itself, but a good life, is chiefly to be desired.”
  2. Compare the “knowledge of things divine and things human” of lxxxix. 5.
  3. The “Golden Age” motif was a frequent one in Latin literature. Compare, 
  e.g., Tibullus, i. 3. 35 ff., the passage beginning:
     Quam bene Saturno vivebant rege, priusquam
     Tellus in longas est patefacta vias!
   Cf. § 46, summing up the message of Seneca’s letter.
  4. While modern philosophy would probably side with Seneca rather than 
  Posidonius, it is interesting to know the opinion of Macaulay, who holds 
  (Essay on Bacon) that there is much in common between Posidonius and 
  the English inductive philosopher, and thinks but little of Seneca’s ideas 
  on the subject. Cf. W. C. Summers, Select letters of Seneca, p. 312.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    251

  5. Cleobulus of Rhodes, Periander of Corinth, Pittacus of Mitylene, Bias 
   of Priene, Thales of Miletus, Chilon of Sparta, and Solon of Athens. For 
   some of these substitutions are made in certain lists.
  6. Cf. Ep. lxxxviii. 20 ad alia multum, ad virtutem nihil.
  7. Vergil, Georg. i. 144.
  8. Cf. Juvenal, iii. 254 ff.:
      Longa coruscat
      Serraco veniente abies, atque altera pinum 
      Plaustra vehunt, nutant alte populoque minantur.
   Compare also the “towering tenements” of § 8.
  9. Vergil, Georg. i. 139 f.
10. Cf. T. Rice Holmes, Ancient Britain, pp. 121 f., who concludes that the 
   discovery of ore-smelting was accidental.
11. Cf. Diog. Laert. vi. 37 θεασάμενός ποτε παιδίον ταῖς χερσὶ ἐξέῤῥιψε τῆς 
   πήρας τὴν κοτύλην, εἰπών, Παιδίον με νενίκηκεν εὐτελεία.
12. Compare the halls of Nero which Seneca may easily have had in mind: 
   (Suet. Nero 31) cenationes laqueatae tabulis eburneis versatilibus . . . 
   praecipua cenationum rotunda, quae perpetuo diebus ac noctibus vice 
   mundi circumageretur.
13. Cf. Ovid, Met. i. 121 f.:
      Domus antra fuerunt
      Et densi frutices et vinctae cortice virgae.
   Among many accounts by Roman writers of early man, compare this 
   passage of Ovid, and that in the fifth book of Lucretius.
14. Ovid, Met. vi. 55 ff.
15. Professor Summers calls attention to the similarity of this passage and 
   Cicero, De Nat. Deor. ii. 134 ff. dentibus manditur . . . a lingua adiuvari 
   videtur . . . in alvo . . . calore . . . in reliquum corpus dividantur.
16. Besides lapis specularis (window-glass) the Romans used alabaster, mica, 
   and shells for this purpose.
17. Suetonius tells us that a certain Ennius, a grammarian of the Augustan 
   age, was the first to develop shorthand on a scientific basis, and that Tiro, 
   Cicero’s freedman, had invented the process. He also mentions Seneca as 
   the most scientific and encyclopaedic authority on the subject.
18. Possibly either the manes or the indigitamenta of the early Roman 
   religion.
19. i.e., λόγος.
20. Seneca, himself one of the keenest scientific observers in history (witness 
   Nat. Quaest., Epp. lvii., lxxix., etc.), is pushing his argument very far in 
   this letter. His message is clear enough; but the modern combination of 
   natural science, psychology, and philosophy shows that Posidonius had 
   some justification for his theories. Cf. also Lucretius, v. 1105-7 ff.
252   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

21. This Scythian prince and friend of Solon, who visited Athens in the sixth 
   century B.C., is also said to have invented the bellows and the anchor. 
   Cf., however, Iliad xviii. 600 f. ὡς ὅτε τις τροχὸν ἄρμενον ἐν παλάμηισιν 
   ἑζόμενος κεραμεὺς πειρήσεται, and Leaf’s comment: “The potter’s wheel 
   was known in pre-Mycenean times, and was a very ancient invention to 
   the oldest Epic poets.” Seneca is right.
22. Seneca (see next sentence) is right again. The arch was known in Chaldaea 
   and in Egypt before 3000 B.C. Greek bee-hive tombs, Etruscan gateways, 
   and early Roman remains, testify to its immemorial use.
23. The ancients judged precious stones merely by their colour; their 
   smaragdus included also malachite, jade, and several kinds of quartz. 
   Exposure to heat alters the colour of some stones; and the alchemists 
   believed that the “angelic stone” changed common flints into diamonds, 
   rubies, emeralds, etc. See G. F. Kunz, The Magic of Jewels and Charms, p. 
   16. It was also an ancient superstition that emeralds were produced from 
   jasper.
24. i.e., the Epicureans, who withdraw from civil life and regarded the gods as 
   taking no part in the affairs of men.
25. i.e., live according to nature.
26. Verg. Georg. i. 125 ff.
27. Cf. Horace, Ep. i. 10. 20 f.:
      Purior in vicis aqua tendit rumpere plumbum
      Quam quae per pronum trepidat cum murmure rivum?
28. Because virtue depends upon reason, and none but voluntary acts should 
   meet with praise or blame.
                   LETTER 91
          On the Lesson to be Drawn 
         From the Burning of Lyons      [1]
                       A

Our friend Liberalis[2] is now downcast; for he has just heard of 
the fire which has wiped out the colony of Lyons. Such a calamity 
might upset anyone at all, not to speak of a man who dearly loves 
his country. But this incident has served to make him inquire 
about the strength of his own character, which he has trained, 
I suppose, just to meet situations that he thought might cause 
him fear. I do not wonder, however, that he was free from appre-
hension touching an evil so unexpected and practically unheard 
of as this, since it is without precedent. For fire has damaged 
many a city, but has annihilated none. Even when fire has been 
hurled against the walls by the hand of a foe, the flame dies out in 
many places, and although continually renewed, rarely devours 
so wholly as to leave nothing for the sword. Even an earthquake 
has scarcely ever been so violent and destructive as to overthrow 
whole cities. Finally, no conflagration has ever before blazed forth 
so savagely in any town that nothing was left for a second.
  So many beautiful buildings, any single one of which would 
make a single town famous, were wrecked in one night. In time 
of such deep peace an event has taken place worse than men 
can possibly fear even in time of war. Who can believe it? When 
254 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

weapons are everywhere at rest and when peace prevails through-
out the world, Lyons, the pride of Gaul,[3] is missing!
  Fortune has usually allowed all men, when she has assailed 
them collectively, to have a foreboding of that which they were 
destined to suffer. Every great creation has had granted to it a 
period of reprieve before its fall; but in this case, only a single 
night elapsed between the city at its greatest and the city non-
existent. In short, it takes me longer to tell you it has perished 
than it took for the city to perish.
  All this has affected our friend Liberalis, bending his will, 
which is usually so steadfast and erect in the face of his own 
trials. And not without reason has he been shaken; for it is the 
unexpected that puts the heaviest load upon us. Strangeness adds 
to the weight of calamities, and every mortal feels the greater pain 
as a result of that which also brings surprise.
  Therefore, nothing ought to be unexpected by us. Our minds 
should be sent forward in advance to meet all problems, and we 
should consider, not what is wont to happen, but what can hap-
pen. For what is there in existence that Fortune, when she has so 
willed, does not drag down from the very height of its prosperity? 
And what is there that she does not the more violently assail the 
more brilliantly it shines? What is laborious or difficult for her? 
  She does not always attack in one way or even with her full 
strength; at one time she summons our own hands against us; at 
another time, content with her own powers, she makes use of no 
agent in devising perils for us. No time is exempt; in the midst 
of our very pleasures there spring up causes of suffering. War 
arises in the midst of peace, and that which we depended upon 
for protection is transformed into a cause of fear; friend becomes 
enemy, ally becomes foeman, The summer calm is stirred into 
sudden storms, wilder than the storms of winter.[4] With no foe in 
sight we are victims of such fates as foes inflict, and if other causes 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 255

of disaster fail, excessive good fortune finds them for itself. The 
most temperate are assailed by illness, the strongest by wasting 
disease, the most innocent by chastisement, the most secluded 
by the noisy mob.
  Chance chooses some new weapon by which to bring her 
strength to bear against us, thinking we have forgotten her.
  Whatever structure has been reared by a long sequence of years, 
at the cost of great toil and through the great kindness of the gods, 
is scattered and dispersed by a single day. Nay, he who has said “a 
day” has granted too long a postponement to swift-coming mis-
fortune; an hour, an instant of time, suffices for the overthrow of 
empires! It would be some consolation for the feebleness of our 
selves and our works, if all things should perish as slowly as they 
come into being; but as it is, increases are of sluggish growth, but 
the way to ruin is rapid.
  Nothing, whether public or private, is stable; the destinies of 
men, no less than those of cities, are in a whirl. Amid the great-
est calm terror arises, and though no external agencies stir up 
commotion, yet evils burst forth from sources whence they were 
least expected. Thrones which have stood the shock of civil and 
foreign wars crash to the ground though no one sets them tot-
tering. How few the states which have carried their good fortune 
through to the end!
  We should therefore reflect upon all contingencies, and should 
fortify our minds against the evils which may possibly come.
  Exile, the torture of disease, wars, shipwreck—we must think on 
these.[5] Chance may tear you from your country or your country 
from you, or may banish you to the desert; this very place, where 
throngs are stifling, may become a desert. Let us place before our 
eyes in its entirety the nature of man’s lot, and if we would not 
be overwhelmed, or even dazed, by those unwonted evils, as if 
they were novel, let us summon to our minds beforehand, not 
256 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

as great an evil as oftentimes happens, but the very greatest evil 
that possibly can happen. We must reflect upon fortune fully and 
completely.
  How often have cities in Asia, how often in Achaia, been laid 
low by a single shock of earthquake! How many towns in Syria, 
how many in Macedonia, have been swallowed up! How often 
has this kind of devastation laid Cyprus[6] in ruins! How often has 
Paphos collapsed! Not infrequently are tidings brought to us of 
the utter destruction of entire cities; yet how small a part of the 
world are we, to whom such tidings often come!
  Let us rise, therefore, to confront the operations of Fortune, 
and whatever happens, let us have the assurance that it is not so 
great as rumour advertises it to be.
  A rich city has been laid in ashes, the jewel of the provinces, 
counted as one of them and yet not included with them;[7] rich 
though it was, nevertheless it was set upon a single hill,[8] and that 
not very large in extent. But of all those cities, of whose magnifi-
cence and grandeur you hear today, the very traces will be blotted 
out by time. Do you not see how, in Achaia, the foundations of 
the most famous cities have already crumbled to nothing, so that 
no trace is left to show that they ever even existed?[9]
  Not only does that which has been made with hands totter to 
the ground, not only is that which has been set in place by man’s 
art and man’s efforts overthrown by the passing days; nay, the 
peaks of mountains dissolve, whole tracts have settled, and places 
which once stood far from the sight of the sea are now covered 
by the waves. The mighty power of fires has eaten away the hills 
through whose sides they used to glow, and has levelled to the 
ground peaks which were once most lofty—the sailor’s solace and 
his beacon. The works of nature herself are harassed; hence we 
ought to bear with untroubled minds the destruction of cities.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 257

  They stand but to fall! This doom awaits them, one and all; 
it may be that some internal force, and blasts of violence which 
are tremendous because their way is blocked, will throw off the 
weight which holds then down; or that a whirlpool of raging cur-
rents, mightier because they are hidden in the bosom of the earth, 
will break through that which resists its power; or that the vehe-
mence of flames will burst asunder the framework of the earth’s 
crust; or that time, from which nothing is safe, will reduce them 
little by little; or that a pestilential climate will drive their inhab-
itants away and the mould will corrode their deserted walls. It 
would be tedious to recount all the ways by which fate may come; 
but this one thing I know: all the works of mortal man have been 
doomed to mortality, and in the midst of things which have been 
destined to die, we live!
  Hence it is thoughts like these, and of this kind, which I am 
offering as consolation to our friend Liberalis, who burns with a 
love for his country that is beyond belief. Perhaps its destruction 
has been brought about only that it may be raised up again to a 
better destiny. Oftentimes a reverse has but made room for more 
prosperous fortune. Many structures have fallen only to rise to 
a greater height. Timagenes,[10] who had a grudge against Rome 
and her prosperity, used to say that the only reason he was grieved 
when conflagrations occurred in Rome was his knowledge that 
better buildings would arise than those which had gone down in 
the flames.
  And probably in this city of Lyons, too, all its citizens will ear-
nestly strive that everything shall be rebuilt better in size and 
security than what they have lost. May it be built to endure and, 
under happier auspices, for a longer existence! This is indeed 
but the hundredth year since this colony was founded—not the 
limit even of a man’s lifetime.[11] Led forth by Plancus, the natural 
advantages of its site have caused it to wax strong and reach the 
258 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

numbers which it contains today; and yet how many calamities 
of the greatest severity has it endured within the space of an old 
man’s life!
  Therefore let the mind be disciplined to understand and to 
endure its own lot, and let it have the knowledge that there is 
nothing which fortune does not dare—that she has the same juris-
diction over empires as over emperors, the same power over cities 
as over the citizens who dwell therein. We must not cry out at 
any of these calamities. Into such a world have we entered, and 
under such laws do we live. If you like it, obey; if not, depart 
whithersoever you wish. Cry out in anger if any unfair measures 
are taken with reference to you individually; but if this inevitable 
law is binding upon the highest and the lowest alike, be reconciled 
to fate, by which all things are dissolved.
  You should not estimate our worth by our funeral mounds or 
by these monuments of unequal size which line the road; their 
ashes level all men! We are unequal at birth, but are equal in 
death. What I say about cities I say also about their inhabitants. 
Ardea was captured as well as Rome.[12] The great founder of 
human law has not made distinctions between us on the basis 
of high lineage or of illustrious names, except while we live. 
When, however, we come to the end which awaits mortals, he 
says: “Depart, ambition! To all creatures that burden the earth 
let one and the same[13] law apply!” For enduring all things, we 
are equal; no one is more frail than another, no one more certain 
of his own life on the morrow.
  Alexander, king of Macedon, began to study geometry;[14] 
unhappy man, because he would thereby learn how puny was 
that earth of which he had seized but a fraction! Unhappy man, I 
repeat, because he was bound to understand that he was bearing 
a false title. For who can be “great” in that which is puny? The 
lessons which were being taught him were intricate and could 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 259

be learned only by assiduous application; they were not the kind 
to be comprehended by a madman, who let his thoughts range 
beyond the ocean.[15] “Teach me something easy!” he cries; but 
his teacher answers: “These things are the same for all, as hard 
for one as for another.”
  Imagine that nature is saying to us: “Those things of which you 
complain are the same for all. I cannot give anything easier to any 
man, but whoever wishes will make things easier for himself.” 
In what way? By equanimity. You must suffer pain, and thirst, 
and hunger, and old age too, if a longer stay among men shall be 
granted you; you must be sick, and you must suffer loss and death.
  Nevertheless, you should not believe those whose noisy 
clamour surrounds you; none of these things is an evil, none is 
beyond your power to bear, or is burdensome. It is only by com-
mon opinion that there is anything formidable in them. Your 
fearing death is therefore like your fear of gossip. But what is more 
foolish than a man afraid of words? Our friend Demetrius[16] is 
wont to put it cleverly when he says: “For me the talk of ignorant 
men is like the rumblings which issue from the belly. For,” he adds, 
“what difference does it make to me whether such rumblings 
come from above or from below?”
  What madness it is to be afraid of disrepute in the judgment of 
the disreputable! Just as you have had no cause for shrinking in 
terror from the talk of men, so you have no cause now to shrink 
from these things, which you would never fear had not their talk 
forced fear upon you. Does it do any harm to a good man to be 
besmirched by unjust gossip?
  Then let not this sort of thing damage death, either, in our 
estimation; death also is in bad odour. But no one of those who 
malign death has made trial of it.
  Meanwhile it is foolhardy to condemn that of which you are 
ignorant. This one thing, however, you do know—that death is 
260   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

helpful to many, that it sets many free from tortures, want, ail-
ments, sufferings, and weariness. We are in the power of nothing 
when once we have death in our own power! Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. In spite of the centesimus annus of § 14 (q.v.), the most probable date 
   of this letter, based on Tac. Ann. xvi. 13 and other general evidence, is 
   July-September 64 A.D. 58 A.D. would be too early for many reasons—
   among them that “peace all over the world” would not be a true statement 
   until January of 62. (See the monograph of Jonas, O. Binder, Peiper, and 
   Schultess.)
  2. Probably Aebutius Liberalis, to whom the treatise De Beneficiis was 
   dedicated.
  3. That Lyons, situated at the junction of the Arar and the Rhone, was of 
   especial prominence in Gaul, may be also gathered from the fact that it 
   boasted a government mint and the Ara Augusti—a shrine established 
   for the annual worship of all the Gallic states. Moreover, the emperor 
   Claudius delivered his famous address in that city (see Tac. Ann. xi. 23 f.).
  4. Cf. Ep. iv. 7, esp. the words noli huic tranquillitati confidere; momento mare 
   evertitur.
  5. The passage bears a striking resemblance to the words of Theseus in an 
   unknown play of Euripides (Nauck. Frag. 964) quoted by Cicero, Tusc. iii. 
   14. 29, and by Plutarch, Consolation to Apollonius, 112d.
  6. Seneca (N. Q. vi. 26) speaks of Paphos (on the island of Cyprus) as having 
   been more than once devastated. We know of two such accidents—one 
   under Augustus and another under Vespasian. See the same passage for 
   other earthquake shocks in various places.
  7. Lyons held an exceptional position in relation to the three Gallic 
   provinces; it was a free town, belonging to none and yet their capital, 
   much like the city of Washington in relation to the United States.
  8. A fact mentioned merely to suggest Rome with her seven hills.
  9. For example, Mycenae and Tiryns.
10. Probably the writer, and intimate friend of Augustus, who began life in 
   Rome as a captive from Egypt. Falling into disfavour with the Emperor, 
   he took refuge with the malcontent Asinius Pollio at Tusculum, and 
   subsequently died in the East. Cf. Seneca, De Ira, iii. 23.
11. It was in 43 B.C. that Plancus led out the colonists who were chiefly 
   Roman citizens driven from Vienna. Seneca would have been more 
   accurate had he said “one hundred and eighth (or seventh).” Buecheler 
   and Schultess would (unnecessarily) emend to read centesimus septimus. 
   But Seneca was using round numbers.
12. Ardea, the earliest capital of Latium, and Rome, the present capital of the 
   empire. Seneca probably refers to Ardea’s capture and destruction by the 
   Samnites in the fourth century; Rome was captured by the Celts in 390 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    261

   B.C. The former greatness of Ardea was celebrated by Vergil,Aeneid , vii. 
   411 ff.:
      et nunc magnum manet Ardea nomen,
      Sed fortuna fuit.
13. Siremps  (or sirempse—Plaut. Amph. 73), an ancient legal term, is derived 
   by Festus from similis re ipsa; but Corssen explains it as from sic rem pse.
14. i.e., surveying. See Ep. lxxxviii. 10.
15. i.e., Ὠκεανός, the stream which encircles the earth.
16. This plain-living, plain-speaking philosopher appears also in Epp. xx. 
   9 and lxii. 3. Seneca refers to him as seminudum, quanto minus quam 
   stramentis incubantem.

                   LETTER 92
              On the Happy Life    [1]
                       A

You and I will agree, I think, that outward things are sought 
for the satisfaction of the body, that the body is cherished out of 
regard for the soul, and that in the soul there are certain parts 
which minister to us, enabling us to move and to sustain life, 
bestowed upon us just for the sake of the primary part of us.[2] In 
this primary part there is something irrational, and something 
rational. The former obeys the latter, while the latter is the only 
thing that is not referred back to another, but rather refers all 
things to itself. For the divine reason also is set in supreme com-
mand over all things, and is itself subject to none; and even this 
reason which we possess is the same, because it is derived from 
the divine reason.
  Now if we are agreed on this point, it is natural that we shall be 
agreed on the following also—namely, that the happy life depends 
upon this and this alone: our attainment of perfect reason. For 
it is naught but this that keeps the soul from being bowed down, 
that stands its ground against Fortune; whatever the condition of 
their affairs may be, it keeps men untroubled. And that alone is a 
good which is never subject to impairment. That man, I declare, 
is happy whom nothing makes less strong than he is; he keeps to 

Artwork opposite by Nimit Malavia
264 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

the heights, leaning upon none but himself; for one who sustains 
himself by any prop may fall. If the case is otherwise, then things 
which do not pertain to us will begin to have great influence over 
us. But who desires Fortune to have the upper hand, or what sen-
sible man prides himself upon that which is not his own?
  What is the happy life? It is peace of mind, and lasting tranquil-
lity. This will be yours if you possess greatness of soul; it will be 
yours if you possess the steadfastness that resolutely clings to a 
good judgment just reached. How does a man reach this condi-
tion? By gaining a complete view of truth, by maintaining, in all 
that he does, order, measure, fitness, and a will that is inoffensive 
and kindly, that is intent upon reason and never departs there-
from, that commands at the same time love and admiration. In 
short, to give you the principle in brief compass, the wise man’s 
soul ought to be such as would be proper for a god.
  What more can one desire who possesses all honourable 
things? For if dishonourable things can contribute to the best 
estate, then there will be the possibility of a happy life under 
conditions which do not include an honourable life. And what is 
more base or foolish than to connect the good of a rational soul 
with things irrational?
  Yet there are certain philosophers who hold that the Supreme 
Good admits of increase because it is hardly complete when the 
gifts of fortune are adverse.[3] Even Antipater,[4] one of the great 
leaders of this school, admits that he ascribes some influence to 
externals, though only a very slight influence. You see, however, 
what absurdity lies in not being content with the daylight unless 
it is increased by a tiny fire. What importance can a spark have 
in the midst of this clear sunlight?
  If you are not contented with only that which is honourable, 
it must follow that you desire in addition either the kind of quiet 
which the Greeks call “undisturbedness,” or else pleasure. But 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 265

the former may be attained in any case. For the mind is free from 
disturbance when it is fully free to contemplate the universe, and 
nothing distracts it from the contemplation of nature. The second, 
pleasure, is simply the good of cattle. We are but adding[5] the 
irrational to the rational, the dishonourable to the honourable. A 
pleasant physical sensation affects this life of ours why, therefore, 
do you hesitate to say that all is well with a man just because all 
is well with his appetite? And do you rate, I will not say among 
heroes, but among men, the person whose Supreme Good is a 
matter of flavours and colours and sounds? Nay, let him withdraw 
from the ranks of this, the noblest class of living beings, second 
only to the gods; let him herd with the dumb brutes—an animal 
whose delight is in fodder!
  The irrational part of the soul is twofold:[6] the one part is 
spirited, ambitious, uncontrolled; its seat is in the passions; the 
other is lowly, sluggish, and devoted to pleasure. Philosophers 
have neglected the former, which, though unbridled, is yet bet-
ter, and is certainly more courageous and more worthy of a man, 
and have regarded the latter, which is nerveless and ignoble, as 
indispensable to the happy life.
  They have ordered reason to serve this latter; they have made 
the Supreme Good of the noblest living being an abject and mean 
affair, and a monstrous hybrid, too, composed of various mem-
bers which harmonize but ill. For as our Vergil, describing Scylla, 
says[7]

     Above, a human face and maiden’s breast,

     A beauteous breast—below, a monster huge
     Of bulk and shapeless, with a dolphin’s tail
     Joined to a wolf-like belly.
266 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

  And yet to this Scylla are tacked on the forms of wild animals, 
dreadful and swift; but from what monstrous shapes have these 
wiseacres compounded wisdom!
  Man’s primary art is virtue itself; there is joined to this the 
useless and fleeting flesh, fitted only for the reception of food, as 
Posidonius remarks. This divine virtue ends in foulness, and to the 
higher parts, which are worshipful and heavenly, there is fastened 
a sluggish and flabby animal. As for the second desideratum—
quiet—although it would indeed not of itself be of any benefit to 
the soul, yet it would relieve the soul of hindrances; pleasure, on 
the contrary, actually destroys the soul and softens all its vigour. 
What elements so inharmonious as these can be found united? 
To that which is most vigorous is joined that which is most slug-
gish, to that which is austere that which is far from serious, to 
that which is most holy that which is unrestrained even to the 
point of impurity.
  “What, then,” comes the retort, “if good health, rest, and free-
dom from pain are not likely to hinder virtue, shall you not seek 
all these?” Of course I shall seek them, but not because they are 
goods—I shall seek them because they are according to nature 
and because they will be acquired through the exercise of good 
judgment on my part. What, then, will be good in them? This 
alone—that it is a good thing to choose them. For when I don 
suitable attire, or walk as I should, or dine as I ought to dine, it 
is not my dinner, or my walk, or my dress that are goods, but the 
deliberate choice which I show in regard to them, as I observe, in 
each thing I do, a mean that conforms with reason.
  Let me also add that the choice of neat clothing is a fitting 
object of a man’s efforts; for man is by nature a neat and well-
groomed animal. Hence the choice of neat attire, and not neat 
attire in itself, is a good; since the good is not in the thing selected, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 267

but in the quality of the selection. Our actions are honourable, 
but not the actual things which we do.
  And you may assume that what I have said about dress applies 
also to the body. For nature has surrounded our soul with the 
body as with a sort of garment; the body is its cloak. But who 
has ever reckoned the value of clothes by the wardrobe which 
contained them? The scabbard does not make the sword good or 
bad. Therefore, with regard to the body I shall return the same 
answer to you—that, if I have the choice, I shall choose health 
and strength, but that the good involved will be my judgment 
regarding these things, and not the things themselves.
  Another retort is: “Granted that the wise man is happy; nev-
ertheless, he does not attain the Supreme Good which we have 
defined, unless the means also which nature provides for its 
attainment are at his call. So, while one who possesses virtue can-
not be unhappy, yet one cannot be perfectly happy if one lacks 
such natural gifts as health, or soundness of limb.”
  But in saying this, you grant the alternative which seems 
the more difficult to believe—that the man who is in the midst 
of unremitting and extreme pain is not wretched, nay, is even 
happy; and you deny that which is much less serious—that he is 
completely happy. And yet, if virtue can keep a man from being 
wretched, it will be an easier task for it to render him completely 
happy. For the difference between happiness and complete hap-
piness is less than that between wretchedness and happiness. Can 
it be possible that a thing which is so powerful as to snatch a 
man from disaster, and place him among the happy, cannot also 
accomplish what remains, and render him supremely happy? 
Does its strength fail at the very top of the climb?
  There are in life things which are advantageous and disadvanta-
geous—both beyond our control. If a good man, in spite of being 
weighed down by all kinds of disadvantages, is not wretched, 
268 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

how is he not supremely happy, no matter if he does lack cer-
tain advantages? For as he is not weighted down to wretched-
ness by his burden of disadvantages, so he is not withdrawn from 
supreme happiness through lack of any advantages; nay, he is just 
as supremely happy without the advantages as he is free from 
wretchedness though under the load of his disadvantages. Oth-
erwise, if his good can be impaired, it can be snatched from him 
altogether.
  A short space above,[8] I remarked that a tiny fire does not add 
to the sun’s light. For by reason of the sun’s brightness any light 
that shines apart from the sunlight is blotted out. “But,” one may 
say, “there are certain objects that stand in the way even of the 
sunlight.” The sun, however, is unimpaired even in the midst of 
obstacles, and, though an object may intervene and cut off our 
view thereof, the sun sticks to his work and goes on his course. 
Whenever he shines forth from amid the clouds, he is no smaller, 
nor less punctual either, than when he is free from clouds; since 
it makes a great deal of difference whether there is merely some-
thing in the way of his light or something which interferes with 
his shining.
  Similarly, obstacles take nothing away from virtue; it is no 
smaller, but merely shines with less brilliancy. In our eyes, it 
may perhaps be less visible and less luminous than before; but as 
regards itself it is the same and, like the sun when he is eclipsed, is 
still, though in secret, putting forth its strength. Disasters, there-
fore, and losses, and wrongs, have only the same power over virtue 
that a cloud has over the sun.
  We meet with one person who maintains that a wise man who 
has met with bodily misfortune is neither wretched nor happy. 
But he also is in error, for he is putting the results of chance upon 
a parity with the virtues, and is attributing only the same influ-
ence to things that are honourable as to things that are devoid 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 269

of honour. But what is more detestable and more unworthy than 
to put contemptible things in the same class with things worthy 
of reverence! For reverence is due to justice, duty, loyalty, brav-
ery, and prudence; on the contrary, those attributes are worthless 
with which the most worthless men are often blessed in fuller 
measure—such as a sturdy leg, strong shoulders, good teeth, and 
healthy and solid muscles.
  Again, if the wise man whose body is a trial to him shall be 
regarded as neither wretched nor happy, but shall be left in a sort 
of half-way position, his life also will be neither desirable nor 
undesirable. But what is so foolish as to say that the wise man’s life 
is not desirable? And what is so far beyond the bounds of credence 
as the opinion that any life is neither desirable nor undesirable? 
Again, if bodily ills do not make a man wretched, they conse-
quently allow him to be happy. For things which have no power 
to change his condition for the worse, have not the power, either, 
to disturb that condition when it is at its best.
  “But,” someone will say, “we know what is cold and what is 
hot; a lukewarm temperature lies between. Similarly, A is happy, 
and B is wretched, and C is neither happy nor wretched.” I wish 
to examine this figure, which is brought into play against us. If I 
add to your lukewarm water a larger quantity of cold water, the 
result will be cold water. But if I pour in a larger quantity of hot 
water, the water will finally become hot. In the case, however, 
of your man who is neither wretched nor happy, no matter how 
much I add to his troubles, he will not be unhappy, according to 
your argument; hence your figure offers no analogy.
  Again, suppose that I set before you a man who is neither mis-
erable nor happy. I add blindness to his misfortunes; he is not 
rendered unhappy. I cripple him; he is not rendered unhappy. I 
add afflictions which are unceasing and severe; he is not rendered 
270 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

unhappy. Therefore, one whose life is not changed to misery by all 
these ills is not dragged by them, either, from his life of happiness. 
  Then if, as you say, the wise man cannot fall from happiness to 
wretchedness, he cannot fall into non-happiness. For how, if one 
has begun to slip, can one stop at any particular place? That which 
prevents him from rolling to the bottom, keeps him at the sum-
mit. Why, you urge, may not a happy life possibly be destroyed? 
It cannot even be disjointed; and for that reason virtue is itself of 
itself sufficient for the happy life.[9]
  “But,” it is said, “is not the wise man happier if he has lived 
longer and has been distracted by no pain, than one who has 
always been compelled to grapple with evil fortune?” Answer 
me now—is he any better or more honourable? If he is not, then 
he is not happier either. In order to live more happily, he must 
live more rightly; if he cannot do that, then he cannot live more 
happily either. Virtue cannot be strained tighter,[10] and therefore 
neither can the happy life, which depends on virtue. For virtue is 
so great a good that it is not affected by such insignificant assaults 
upon it as shortness of life, pain, and the various bodily vexations. 
For pleasure does not deserve that. virtue should even glance at it.
  Now what is the chief thing in virtue? It is the quality of not 
needing a single day beyond the present, and of not reckoning 
up the days that are ours; in the slightest possible moment of 
time virtue completes an eternity of good. These goods seem to 
us incredible and transcending man’s nature; for we measure its 
grandeur by the standard of our own weakness, and we call our 
vices by the name of virtue. Furthermore, does it not seem just as 
incredible that any man in the midst of extreme suffering should 
say, “I am happy”? And yet this utterance was heard in the very 
factory of pleasure, when Epicurus said:[11] “Today and one other 
day have been the happiest of all!” although in the one case he 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 271

was tortured by strangury, and in the other by the incurable pain 
of an ulcerated stomach.
  Why, then, should those goods which virtue bestows be incred-
ible in the sight of us, who cultivate virtue, when they are found 
even in those who acknowledge pleasure as their mistress? These 
also, ignoble and base-minded as they are, declare that even in 
the midst of excessive pain and misfortune the wise man will be 
neither wretched nor happy. And yet this also is incredible—nay, 
still more incredible, than the other case. For I do not understand 
how, if virtue falls from her heights, she can help being hurled 
all the way to the bottom. She either must preserve one in happi-
ness, or, if driven from this position, she will not prevent us from 
becoming unhappy. If virtue only stands her ground, she cannot 
be driven from the field; she must either conquer or be conquered.
  But some say: “Only to the immortal gods is given virtue and 
the happy life; we can attain but the shadow, as it were, and sem-
blance of such goods as theirs. We approach them, but we never 
reach them.” Reason, however, is a common attribute of both gods 
and men; in the gods it is already perfected, in us it is capable of 
being perfected.
  But it is our vices that bring us to despair; for the second class 
of rational being, man, is of an inferior order—a guardian, as it 
were, who is too unstable to hold fast to what is best, his judg-
ment still wavering and uncertain. He may require the faculties 
of sight and hearing, good health, a bodily exterior that is not 
loathsome, and, besides, greater length of days conjoined with 
an unimpaired constitution.
  Though by means of reason he can lead a life which will not 
bring regrets, yet there resides in this imperfect creature, man, 
a certain power that makes for badness, because he possesses a 
mind which is easily moved to perversity. Suppose, however, the 
badness which is in full view, and has previously been stirred to 
272 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

activity, to be removed; the man is still not a good man, but he 
is being moulded to goodness. One, however, in whom there is 
lacking any quality that makes for goodness, is bad.
  But

     He in whose body virtue dwells, and spirit

     E’er present[12]

is equal to the gods; mindful of his origin, he strives to return 
thither. No man does wrong in attempting to regain the heights 
from which he once came down. And why should you not believe 
that something of divinity exists in one who is a part of God? All 
this universe which encompasses us is one, and it is God; we are 
associates of God; we are his members. Our soul has capabilities, 
and is carried thither,[13] if vices do not hold it down. Just as it is 
the nature of our bodies to stand erect and look upward to the 
sky, so the soul, which may reach out as far as it will, was framed 
by nature to this end, that it should desire equality with the gods. 
And if it makes use of its powers and stretches upward into its 
proper region it is by no alien path that it struggles toward the 
heights.
  It would be a great task to journey heavenwards; the soul 
but returns thither. When once it has found the road, it boldly 
marches on, scornful of all things. It casts, no backward glance 
at wealth; gold and silver—things which are fully worthy of the 
gloom in which they once lay—it values not by the sheen which 
smites the eyes of the ignorant, but by the mire of ancient days, 
whence our greed first detached and dug them out.
  The soul, I affirm, knows that riches are stored elsewhere than 
in men’s heaped-up treasure-houses; that it is the soul, and not 
the strong-box, which should be filled.
  It is the soul that men may set in dominion over all things, 
and may install as owner of the universe, so that it may limit 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 273

its riches only by the boundaries of East and West, and, like the 
gods, may possess all things; and that it may, with its own vast 
resources, look down from on high upon the wealthy, no one of 
whom rejoices as much in his own wealth as he resents the wealth 
of another.
  When the soul has transported itself to this lofty height, it 
regards the body also, since it is a burden which must be borne, 
not as a thing to love, but as a thing to oversee; nor is it subservient 
to that over which it is set in mastery. For no man is free who is 
a slave to his body. Indeed, omitting all the other masters which 
are brought into being by excessive care for the body, the sway 
which the body itself exercises is captious and fastidious.
  Forth from this body the soul issues, now with unruffled spirit, 
now with exultation, and, when once it has gone forth, asks not 
what shall be the end of the deserted day. No; just as we do not 
take thought for the clippings of the hair and the beard, even so 
that divine soul, when it is about to issue forth from the mortal 
man, regards the destination of its earthly vessel—whether it be 
consumed by fire, or shut in by a stone, or buried in the earth, or 
torn by wild beasts—as being of no more concern to itself than 
is the afterbirth to a child just born. And whether this body shall 
be cast out and plucked to pieces by birds, or devoured when

     thrown to the sea-dogs as prey,[14]

how does that concern him who is nothing?
  Nay even when it is among the living, the soul fears nothing 
that may happen to the body after death; for though such things 
may have been threats, they were not enough to terrify the soul 
previous to the moment of death. It says; “I am not frightened by 
the executioner’s hook,[15] nor by the revolting mutilation of the 
corpse which is exposed to the scorn of those who would wit-
ness the spectacle. I ask no man to perform the last rites for me; 
274   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

I entrust my remains to none. Nature has made provision that 
none shall go unburied. Time will lay away one whom cruelty has 
cast forth.” Those were eloquent words which Maecenas uttered:

       I want no tomb; for Nature doth provide

       For outcast bodies burial.[16]

   You would imagine that this was the saying of a man of strict 
principles. He was indeed a man of noble and robust native gifts, 
but in prosperity he impaired these gifts by laxness.[17] Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. The reader will find this topic treated at greater length in Seneca’sDe  Vita 
   Beata.
  2. i.e., the soul. See Aristotle, Eth. 1. 13: “It is stated that the soul has two 
   parts, one irrational and the other possessing reason.” Aristotle further 
   subdivides the irrational part into (1) that which makes for growth and 
   increase, and (2) desire (which will, however, obey reason). In this passage 
   Seneca uses “soul” in its widest sense.
  3. Certain of the Peripatetic and Academic school.
  4. Probably due to the criticism of the Stoics by Carneades, who said that 
   everything which is according to nature should be classed among the 
   goods.
  5. If we call pleasure a good.
  6. Cf. § 1 of this letter. Plato gives three divisions—the λογιστικόν, the 
   ἐπιθυμητικόν, and the θυμοειδές which obeys either the first or the 
   second. See his Republic, 440.
 7. Aeneid, iii. 426 ff.
  8. § 5.
  9. Answering the objection raised in § 14.
10. Cf. Ep. lxxi. 16 non intenditur virtus. The Stoic idea oftension  may be 
   combined here with the raising of a note to a higher pitch.
11. Frag. 138 Usener. Cf. Sen. Ep. lxvi. 47.
12. Vergil, Aeneid, v. 363. Vergil MSS. read pectore.
13. i.e., to participation in the divine existence.
14. Vergil, Aeneid, ix. 485.
15. Cf. Juvenal, x. 65 Seianus ducitur unco spectandus. The bodies of criminals 
   were dragged by the hook through the city to the Scalae Gemoniae, down 
   which they were flung.
16. Frag. 6 Lunderstedt.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    275

17. The figure is taken from the Roman dress—one who was “girt high”alte (  
   cinctus), ready for vigorous walking, being contrasted with the loosely-
   girdled person (discinctus), indolent or effeminate. On the character of 
   Maecenas see Epp. cxiv. 4 ff., xix. 9, cxx. 19.

            AFTERWORD
                       A
This is Tim Ferriss again, the producer of this series of The Tao of 
Seneca. On the next page is the first letter of the next volume, Vol-
ume 3—“On the Quality, as Contrasted With the Length, of Life.”
  I hope you continue reading the letters in Volume 3, which 
contains some of my personal favorites. You can find that ebook 
volume for free at tim.blog/seneca.
  At the very least, don’t miss the “PROFILES OF MODERN-
DAY STOICS” on pg 285 at the end of this volume. They’re easy 
to digest, actionable, and intended to be a low-labor dessert after 
so much of our dear Seneca. They are no less impactful.

  Enjoy,
  Tim 

                   LETTER 93
        On the Quality, as Contrasted 
            With the Length, of Life
                       A

While reading the letter in which you were lamenting the death 
of the philosopher Metronax[1] as if he might have, and indeed 
ought to have, lived longer, I missed the spirit of fairness which 
abounds in all your discussions concerning men and things, but 
is lacking when you approach one single subject—as is indeed the 
case with us all. In other words, I have noticed many who deal 
fairly with their fellow-men, but none who deals fairly with the 
gods. We rail every day at Fate, saying “Why has A. been carried 
off in the very middle of his career? Why is not B. carried off 
instead? Why should he prolong his old age, which is a burden 
to himself as well as to others?”
  But tell me, pray, do you consider it fairer that you should obey 
Nature, or that Nature should obey you? And what difference does 
it make how soon you depart from a place which you must depart 
from sooner or later? We should strive, not to live long, but to live 
rightly;[2] for to achieve long life you have need of Fate only, but 
for right living you need the soul. A life is really long if it is a full 
life; but fullness is not attained until the soul has rendered to itself 
its proper Good,[3] that is, until it has assumed control over itself.
  What benefit does this older man derive from the eighty years 
he has spent in idleness? A person like him has not lived; he 
280 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

has merely tarried awhile in life. Nor has he died late in life; he 
has simply been a long time dying. He has lived eighty years, 
has he? That depends upon the date from which you reckon his 
death! Your other friend,[4] however, departed in the bloom of 
his manhood.
  But he had fulfilled all the duties of a good citizen, a good 
friend, a good son; in no respect had he fallen short. His age may 
have been incomplete, but his life was complete. The other man 
has lived eighty years, has he? Nay, he has existed eighty years, 
unless perchance you mean by “he has lived” what we mean when 
we say that a tree “lives.”
  Pray, let us see to it, my dear Lucilius, that our lives, like jew-
els of great price, be noteworthy not because of their width but 
because of their weight.[5] Let us measure them by their perfor-
mance, not by their duration. Would you know wherein lies the 
difference between this hardy man who, despising Fortune, has 
served through every campaign of life and has attained to life’s 
Supreme Good, and that other person over whose head many 
years have passed? The former exists even after his death; the 
latter has died even before he was dead.[6]
  We should therefore praise, and number in the company of the 
blest, that man who has invested well the portion of time, how-
ever little, that has been allotted to him; for such a one has seen 
the true light. He has not been one of the common herd. He has 
not only lived, but flourished. Sometimes he enjoyed fair skies; 
sometimes, as often happens, it was only through the clouds that 
there flashed to him the radiance of the mighty star.[7] Why do 
you ask: “How long did he live?” He still lives! At one bound he 
has passed over into posterity and has consigned himself to the 
guardianship of memory.
  And yet I would not on that account decline for myself a few 
additional years; although, if my life’s space be shortened, I shall 
            Moral Letters to Lucilius | Volume 3 Sample 281

not say that I have lacked aught that is essential to a happy life. For 
I have not planned to live up to the very last day that my greedy 
hopes had promised me; nay, I have looked upon every day as if 
it were my last. Why ask the date of my birth, or whether I am 
still enrolled on the register of the younger men?[8] What I have 
is my own. 
  Just as one of small stature can be a perfect man, so a life of 
small compass can be a perfect life. Age ranks among the external 
things.[9] How long I am to exist is not mine to decide, but how 
long I shall go on existing in my present way is in my own control. 
This is the only thing you have the right to require of me—that I 
shall cease to measure out an inglorious age as it were in darkness, 
and devote myself to living instead of being carried along past life.
  And what, you ask, is the fullest span of life? It is living until 
you possess wisdom. He who has attained wisdom has reached, 
not the furthermost, but the most important, goal. Such a one 
may indeed exult boldly and give thanks to the gods—aye, and 
to himself also—and he may count himself Nature’s creditor for 
having lived. He will indeed have the right to do so, for he has 
paid her back a better life than he has received. He has set up the 
pattern of a good man, showing the quality and the greatness of 
a good man. Had another year been added, it would merely have 
been like the past.
  And yet how long are we to keep living? We have had the joy of 
learning the truth about the universe. We know from what begin-
nings Nature arises; how she orders the course of the heavens; by 
what successive changes she summons back the year; how she has 
brought to an end all things that ever have been, and has estab-
lished herself as the only end of her own being.[10] We know that 
the stars move by their own motion, and that nothing except the 
earth stands still, while all the other bodies run on with uninter-
rupted swiftness.[11] We know how the moon outstrips the sun; 
282 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

why it is that the slower leaves the swifter behind; in what manner 
she receives her light, or loses it again; what brings on the night, 
and what brings back the day. To that place you must go where 
you are to have a closer view of all these things.
  “And yet,” says the wise man, “I do not depart more valiantly 
because of this hope—because I judge the path lies clear before 
me to my own gods. I have indeed earned admission to their 
presence, and in fact have already been in their company; I have 
sent my soul to them as they had previously sent theirs to me. 
But suppose that I am utterly annihilated, and that after death 
nothing mortal remains; I have no less courage, even if, when I 
depart, my course leads—nowhere.”
  “But,” you say, “he has not lived as many years as he might 
have lived.”
  There are books which contain very few lines, admirable and 
useful in spite of their size; and there are also the Annals of Tanu-
sius[12]—you know how bulky the book is, and what men say of 
it. This is the case with the long life of certain persons—a state 
which resembles the Annals of Tanusius!
  Do you regard as more fortunate the fighter who is slain on 
the last day of the games than one who goes to his death in the 
middle of the festivities? Do you believe that anyone is so fool-
ishly covetous of life that he would rather have his throat cut in 
the dressing-room than in the amphitheatre? It is by no longer an 
interval than this that we precede one another. Death visits each 
and all; the slayer soon follows the slain. It is an insignificant trifle, 
after all, that people discuss with so much concern. And anyhow, 
what does it matter for how long a time you avoid that which you 
cannot escape? Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. A philosopher of Naples, mentioned as giving lectures there: cf. 
  Ep. lxxvi. 4.
  2. i.e., “adequately,” equivalent to ὠς δεῖ.
                 Moral Letters to Lucilius | Volume 3 Sample    283

  3. For a complete definition of the Supreme Good cf. Ep. lxxi. 4 ff.
  4. i.e., the Metronax mentioned above.
  5. For the same phrase see Ep. lxvi. 30 and footnote.
  6. Cf. Ep. lx. 4 mortem suam antecesserunt.
  7. i.e., the Sun.
  8. As in the original comitia centuriata, men between the ages of seventeen 
   and forty-six.
  9. As riches, health, etc.
10. i.e., Nature herself is eternal.
11. See, however, Seneca, N. Q. vii. 2. 3 sciamus utrum mundus terra stante 
   circumeat an mundo stante terra vertatur. For doubts and discoveries cf. 
   Arnold, Roman Stoicism, pp. 178 f.
12. See Index of Proper Names.

            PROFILES OF 
    MODERN-DAY STOICS
                       A
The following pages profile modern-day stoics found inTools  of 
Titans: The Tactics, Routines, and Habits of Billionaires, Icons, and 
World-Class Performers. These profiles also include some of their 
favorite tools and most amusing stories, anecdotes, and quirks. 
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. Even Stoics deserve 
a laugh once in a while, n’est-ce pas? 
  Here’s how they’re spread across the volumes of The Tao 
of Seneca:

  Volume 1 — Jocko Willink, Derek Sivers, Sebastian Junger
  Volume 2 — Tony Robbins, Chris Sacca, Amelia Boone
  Volume 3 — Arnold Schwarzenegger, Naval Ravikant

  Not all of the people above would describe themselves as 
“Stoic,” but they exhibit the qualities Seneca, Marcus Aurelius, 
and Epictetus would have recognized as such.
  All are incredible.

  Enjoy,
  Tim Ferriss

  P.S. “TIM” or “TF” in the text refers to my words or commen-
tary, as I interviewed the people profiled. Their full 2–3-hour 
interviews can all be found at tim.blog/podcast. 
   
TONY ROBBINS

Tony Robbins (TW/FB/IG: @tonyrobbins, tonyrobbins.com) is 
the world’s most famous performance coach. He’s advised every-
one from Bill Clinton and Serena Williams to Leonardo DiCaprio 
and Oprah (who calls him “superhuman”). Tony Robbins has 
consulted or advised international leaders including Nelson Man-
dela, Mikhail Gorbachev, Margaret Thatcher, François Mitterrand, 
Princess Diana, Mother Teresa, and three U.S. presidents. Robbins 
has also developed and produced five award-winning television 
infomercials that have continuously aired—on average—every 
30 minutes, 24 hours a day, somewhere in North America, since 
1989.

BACK STORY
I first read Tony Robbins’sUnlimited  Power in high school, when 
it was recommended by a straight-A student. Then, just out of 
college, I listened to a used cassette set of Personal Power II during 
my commute in my mom’s hand-me-down minivan. It catalyzed 
my first real business, which led to many of the adventures (and 
misadventures) in The 4-Hour Workweek. People say, “Don’t meet 
your heroes” because it nearly always ends in disappointment. 
With Tony, however, it’s been the opposite: The more I get to know 
him, the more he impresses me.
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 287

LITTLE-KNOWN FACT
The first Instagram pic I ever posted (@timferriss) was of Tony 
literally palming my entire face. His hands are like catcher’s mitts.

“I DIDN’T SURVIVE, I PREPARED.”
Nelson Mandela’s answer when Tony asked him, “Sir, how did 
you survive all those years in prison?”

IS THERE A QUOTE THAT GUIDES YOUR LIFE?
“It’s a belief: Life is always happening for us, not to us. It’s our 
job to find out where the benefit is. If we do, life is magnificent.”

SHORT AND SWEET

  “ ‘Stressed’ is the achiever word for ‘fear.’ ”

  “Losers react, leaders anticipate.”

  “Mastery doesn’t come from an infographic. What you know 
  doesn’t mean shit. What do you do consistently?”

THE BEST INVESTMENT HE’S EVER MADE?
$35 for a 3-hour Jim Rohn seminar, attended at age 17. He ago-
nized over the $35 decision, as he was making $40 a week as a jan-
itor, but Jim gave Tony’s life direction. Decades later, when Tony 
asked Warren Buffett what his all-time best investment was, the 
answer was a Dale Carnegie public speaking course, taken at age 
20. Prior to that, Buffett would vomit before public speaking. After 
the course—and this is the critical piece—Buffett immediately 
went to the University of Omaha and asked to teach, as he didn’t 
want to lapse back into his old behaviors. As Tony recounted, 
Buffett told him, “Investing in yourself is the most important 
investment you’ll ever make in your life. . . . There’s no financial 
investment that’ll ever match it, because if you develop more skill, 
288 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

more ability, more insight, more capacity, that’s what’s going to 
really provide economic freedom. . . . It’s those skill sets that really 
make that happen.” This echoes what Jim Rohn famously said, “If 
you let your learning lead to knowledge, you become a fool. If you 
let your learning lead to action, you become wealthy.”

QUALITY QUESTIONS CREATE A QUALITY LIFE
Tony sometimes phrases this as, “The quality of your life is the 
quality of your questions.” Questions determine your focus. Most 
people—and I’m certainly guilty of this at times—spend their lives 
focusing on negativity (e.g., “How could he say that to me?!”) and 
therefore the wrong priorities.

A FOCUS ON “ME” = SUFFERING
“This brain inside our heads is a 2 million-year-old brain. . . . It’s 
ancient, old survival software that is running you a good deal of 
time. Whenever you’re suffering, that survival software is there. 
The reason you’re suffering is you’re focused on yourself. People 
tell me, ‘I’m not suffering that way. I’m worrying about my kids. 
My kids are not what they need to be.’ No, the reason [these people 
are] upset is they feel they failed their kids. It’s still about them. . . . 
Suffering comes from three thought patterns: loss, less, never.”
  TF: The bolded portion above, combined with another friend’s 
advice, changed my life. It took a while for me to connect the dots. 
I don’t think I’m a complete narcissist (too bald and pale for that), 
but I still wondered how to put this into a concrete daily practice. 
Then, I learned the dead simple “loving-kindness meditation” 
exercise from my friend Chade-Meng Tan (page 157), which had 
a profound effect after just 3 to 4 days. Try it.
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 289

STATE ➞ STORY ➞ STRATEGY
I learned this from my first Tony Robbins event, Unleash the 
Power Within (UPW), which Tony invited me to after our first 
podcast. Perhaps more than any other lesson from Tony, I’ve 
thought about this the most in the last year. If you were to look 
at my daily journal right now, you’d see that I’ve scribbled “STATE 
➞ STORY ➞ STRATEGY” at the top of each page for the next 
several weeks. It’s a reminder to check the boxes in that order.
  Tony believes that, in a lowered emotional state, we only see the 
problems, not solutions. Let’s say you wake up feeling tired and 
overwhelmed. You sit down to brainstorm strategies to solve your 
issues, but it comes to naught, and you feel even worse afterward. 
This is because you started in a negative state, then attempted 
strategy but didn’t succeed (due to tunnel vision on the problems), 
and then likely told yourself self-defeating stories (e.g., “I always 
do this. Why am I so wound up I can’t even think straight?”). 
To fix this, he encourages you to “prime” your state first. The 
biochemistry will help you proactively tell yourself an enabling 
story. Only then do you think on strategy, as you’ll see the options 
instead of dead ends.
  “Priming” my state is often as simple as doing 5 to 10 push-ups 
or getting 20 minutes of sun exposure (see Rick Rubin, page 502). 
Even though I do my most intense exercise at night, I’ve started 
doing 1–2 minutes of calisthenics—or kettlebell swings (see Justin 
Boreta, page 356)—in the morning to set my state for the day. 
Tony’s own priming process is included below.
  I now often ask myself, “Is this really a problem I need tothink  
my way out of? Or is it possible I just need to fix my biochem-
istry?” I’ve wasted a lot of time journaling on “problems” when 
I just needed to eat breakfast sooner, do 10 push-ups, or get an 
extra hour of sleep. Sometimes, you think you have to figure out 
290 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

your life’s purpose, but you really just need some macadamia nuts 
and a cold fucking shower.

MORNING “PRIMING” INSTEAD OF MEDITATION
Upon waking, Tony immediately goes into his priming routine, 
which is intended to produce a rapid change in his physiology: 
“To me, if you want a primetime life, you’ve got to prime daily.” 
There are many tools that I’ve seen Tony use over the years, several 
of which I’ve adopted for myself, including:

➢  Cold-water plunge (I use a quick cold shower, which could 
   be just 30 to 60 seconds).

➢  Tony follows this with breathing exercises. He does 3 sets 
   of 30 reps. His seated technique is similar to the rapid 
   nasal “breath of fire” in yoga, but he adds in rapid overhead 
   extension of the arms on the inhale, with the elbows drop-
   ping down the rib cage on the exhale.

➢  Alternative: “Breath walking.” This is vintage Tony, but I 
   still use it quite often when traveling. Simply walk for a few 
   minutes, using a breathing cycle of 4 short inhales through 
   the nose, then 4 short exhales through the mouth.

  Following something like the above, Tony does 9 to 10 min-
utes of what some might consider meditation. To him, however, 
the objective is very different: It’s about cueing and prompting 
enabling emotions for the rest of the day. His 9 to 10 minutes are 
broken into thirds. Here is an abbreviated synopsis:
  The first 3 minutes: “Feeling totally grateful for three things. I 
make sure that one of them is very, very simple: the wind on my 
face, the reflection of the clouds that I just saw. But I don’t just 
think gratitude. I let gratitude fill my soul, because when you’re 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 291

grateful, we all know there’s no anger. It’s impossible to be angry 
and grateful simultaneously. When you’re grateful, there is no fear. 
You can’t be fearful and grateful simultaneously.”
  The second 3 minutes: “Total focus on feeling the presence of 
God, if you will, however you want to language that for yourself. 
But this inner presence coming in, and feeling it heal everything 
in my body, in my mind, my emotions, my relationships, my 
finances. I see it as solving anything that needs to be solved. I 
experience the strengthening of my gratitude, of my conviction, 
of my passion. . . .”
  The last 3 minutes: “Focusing on three things that I’m going to 
make happen, my ‘three to thrive.’ . . . See it as though it’s already 
been done, feel the emotions, etc. . . .
  “And, as I’ve always said, there’s no excuse not to do 10 minutes. 
If you don’t have 10 minutes, you don’t have a life.”
  This reminded me of something I’ve heard from many adept 
meditators (such as Russell Simmons) in various forms: “If you 
don’t have 20 minutes to delve into yourself through meditation, 
then that means you really need 2 hours.”

FOUR COMMONALITIES ACROSS THE BEST INVESTORS
Tony has interviewed and developed friendships with some of 
the best investors in the world, including Paul Tudor Jones (who 
he’s coached for more than 10 years), Ray Dalio, Carl Icahn, 
David Swensen, Kyle Bass, and many more. These are the hard-
to-interview “unicorns” who consistently beat the market, despite 
the fact that it’s called impossible. Tony wrote a book based on 
his learnings (Money: Master the Game), and here are few of the 
patterns he identified:
 292 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

     Capping the downside: “Every single one of those [people] 
1 is obsessed with not losing money. I mean, a level of obses-
 sion that’s mind-boggling.” On Richard Branson: “His first ques-
 tion to every business is, ‘What’s the downside? And how do I 
 protect against it?’ Like when he did his piece with Virgin [air 
 travel]—that’s a big risk to start an airline—he went to Boeing 
 and negotiated a deal that [he] could send the planes back if it 
 didn’t work, and he wasn’t liable.”
   TF: Branson also tested with little or no risk. In Losing My Vir-
 ginity, which had a huge impact on me around college graduation, 
 he described his very first flight: “We were trying to catch a flight 
 to Puerto Rico, but the local Puerto Rican scheduled flight was 
 canceled. The airport terminal was full of stranded passengers. 
 I made a few calls to charter companies, and agreed to charter a 
 plane for $2,000 to Puerto Rico. I divided the price by the number 
 of seats, borrowed a blackboard, and wrote virgin airways: $39 
 single flight to puerto rico. I walked around the airport 
 terminal and soon filled every seat on the charter plane. As we 
 landed in Puerto Rico, a passenger turned to me and said: ‘Virgin 
 Airways isn’t too bad—smarten up the service a little and you 
 could be in business.’ ”
   Back to Tony, “cap the downside” also applies to thinking long-
 term about fees and middlemen: “If three of my friends [and 
 I] all put aside the same amount of money, and we all get a 7% 
 return, but my buddy’s getting fees of 3%, my other buddy’s 2%, 
 and I’m 1%, and all three of us put $1 million in or $100,000 . . . 
 the person with 3% of fees ends up with 65% less money [in the 
 long-term]. . . .”

     Asymmetrical risks and rewards: “Every single one of them 
 2 is obsessed with asymmetrical risk and reward. . . . It simply 
 means they’re looking to use the least amount of risk to get the 
       Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 293

 max amount of upside, and that’s what they live for. . . . [They 
 don’t believe they] have to take huge risks for huge rewards. Say, 
 ‘How do I get no risk and get huge rewards?’ and because you 
 ask a question continuously and you believe [there’s an] answer, 
 you get it.”
   TF: Here’s a wild example. Kyle Bass at one point bought $1 
 million worth of nickels (roughly 20 million coins). Why? Because 
 their face value was 5 cents and their scrap metal value was 6.8 
 cents at the time. That’s an immediate gain of $360,000. Nicely 
 done.

     Asset allocation: “They absolutely, beyond a shadow of a 
3 doubt, know they’re going to be wrong . . . so they set up 
 an asset allocation system that will make them successful. They 
 all agree asset allocation is the single most important investment 
 decision.” In Money: Master the Game, Ray Dalio elaborated for 
 Tony: “When people think they’ve got a balanced portfolio, stocks 
 are three times more volatile than bonds.
   So when you’re 50/50, you’re really 90/10. You really are mas-
 sively at risk, and that’s why when the markets go down, you get 
 eaten alive. . . . Whatever asset class you invest in, I promise you, 
 in your lifetime, it will drop no less than 50% and more likely 
 70% at some point. That is why you absolutely must diversify.”

     Contribution: “And the last one that I found: almost all of 
4 them were real givers, not just givers on the surface . . . but 
 really passionate about giving. . . . It was really real.”
   TF: One great example is the Robin Hood Foundation, con-
 ceived of by Paul Tudor Jones, which fights poverty in New York 
 City.
294 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

✱ Who comes to mind when I say the word “punchable”?
For a few dozen podcast episodes, I asked the question: “When 
you think of the word ‘punchable,’ whose face is the first that 
comes to mind?” Nine times out of ten, it fell flat, and I’ve since 
stopped asking it. But in my interview with Tony, all of those flops 
were redeemed. He took a long pause and then said, “Punchable. 
Oh, my gosh. Well, I had an interesting meeting with President 
Obama . . .” and proceeded to describe a closed-session conversa-
tion with President Obama (you can hear the full story at 42:15 
in episode #38). It was one of those “God, I really hope my audio 
equipment is working” moments. He closed it with “So, I don’t 
know if I’d say ‘punch,’ but ‘shake’ him.”

✱ Most-gifted or recommended books
  Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankl
  The Fourth Turning by William Strauss (Also, Generations 
    by William Strauss, which was gifted to Tony by 
    Bill Clinton)
  Mindset by Carol Dweck (for parenting)
  As a Man Thinketh by James Allen (see Shay Carl, page 441)
CHRIS SACCA

Chris Sacca (TW/FB/IG/SC: @sacca, lowercasecapital.com) is an 
early-stage investor in dozens of companies, including Twitter, 
Uber, Instagram, Kickstarter, and Twilio. He was the cover story 
of Forbes’s Midas issue in 2015 thanks to what will likely be the 
most successful venture capital fund in history, Lowercase I of 
Lowercase Capital. (Get the name? It took me embarrassingly 
long.) Previously, Chris was Head of Special Initiatives at Google 
Inc., and he is currently a recurring guest Shark on ABC’s Shark 
Tank.

     “It may be lucky, but it’s not an accident.” 

RANDOM BITS

➢  I first met Chris in 2008 at a barbecue organized by Kevin 
  Rose (page 340). For my entire life, I’d had a phobia of 
  swimming and an acute fear of drowning. This came up 
  over wine, and Chris said, “I have the answer to your 
  prayers.” He introduced me to Total Immersion swimming 
  by Terry Laughlin, and in less than 10 days of solo train-
  ing, I went from a 2-length maximum (of a 25-yard pool) 
  to swimming more than 40 lengths per workout in sets of 2 
  and 4. It blew my mind, and now I swim for fun.

➢  Chris is one of the people who generously mentored me in 
  the startup investing game. The other majors include Naval 
296 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

   Ravikant (page 546), Kevin Rose (page 340), and Mike 
   Maples, who got me started (see the Real-World MBA on 
   page 250).

➢  Chris mentioned several books when he appeared on my 
   podcast, including I Seem to Be a Verb by Buckminster 
   Fuller. 48 hours later, used copies were selling for $999 on 
   Amazon.

ARE YOU PLAYING OFFENSE OR DEFENSE?
Despite the fact that people refer to Chris as a “Silicon Valley 
investor,” he hasn’t lived in San Francisco since 2007. Instead, he 
bought a cabin in rural Truckee, Tahoe’s less-expensive neighbor, 
and moved to prime skiing and hiking country. It is no tech hot-
bed. Back then, Chris hadn’t yet made real money in the investing 
game, but he had a rationale for buying the getaway:
  “I wanted to go on offense. I wanted to have the time to focus, 
to learn the things I wanted to learn, to build what I wanted to 
build, and to really invest in relationships that I wanted to grow, 
rather than just doing a day of coffee after coffee after coffee.”
  TF: He no longer felt compelled to take meetings he didn’t 
want. There were no more early-morning coffee dates and late-
night social dinners he didn’t want to attend. Rather, Chris invited 
specific founders to spend weekends at “the jam pad” and “the 
jam tub” (the hot tub outside). He considers the cabin the best 
investment he’s ever made:
  “Everyone loves coming to the mountains. Over the years, that’s 
helped me build lasting friendships. Some of those have been 
the catalysts for my investments in Uber, Twitter, and others. 
I’ve even had a body-hacking, grill-manning, best-selling author 
stay there a few times. [TF: I also embarrassed myself with Euro-
style Speedos.] I borrow the cash for a 3-bedroom house and 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 297

get a lifetime’s worth of pals and a hugely successful business in 
return? Best trade ever.”
  Chris elaborates: “Generally, what all of this comes down to is 
whether you are on offense or defense. I think that as you survey 
the challenges in your lives, it’s just: Which of those did you 
assign yourself, and which of those are you doing to please 
someone else? Your inbox is a to-do list to which anyone in the 
world can add an action item. I needed to get out of my inbox 
and back to my own to-do list.”

GO TO AS MANY HIGHER-LEVEL MEETINGS 
AS POSSIBLE
  TIM: “If working in a startup environment, what should one do 
or focus on to learn and improve as much as possible?”
  CHRIS: “Go to all the meetings you can, even if you’re not 
invited to them, and figure out how to be helpful. If people won-
der why you’re there, just start taking notes. Read all the other 
notes you can find on the company, and gain a general knowledge 
that your very limited job function may not offer you. Just make 
yourself useful and helpful by doing so. That’s worked for me in a 
few different environments, and I encourage you to try it.”
  TF: Chris was well known at Google for showing up to meet-
ings with anyone, including the co-founders. Even if attendees 
looked at each other puzzled, Chris would sit down and let them 
know he’d be taking notes for them. It worked. He got a front-row 
seat to the highest levels of Google and soon became a fixture in 
those meetings.

COWBOY SHIRTS
Chris is known for wearing somewhat ridiculous cowboy shirts. 
They’ve become his signature style. Here’s a bit more context, from 
a Forbes profile of Chris by Alex Konrad: “Steve Jobs had his black 
298 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

turtleneck. Chris Sacca has his embroidered cowboy shirt. He 
bought his first one, impulsively, at the Reno airport en route to 
a speech, and the reaction prompted him to buy out half the store 
on his return.” He likes the brands Scully and Rockmount. A good 
place to look at a wide selection is VintageWesternWear.com.
  A shirt might seem like a small thing, but Chris realized early 
on that being a successful investor isn’t simply knowing which 
companies to invest in. Part of the process is ensuring founders 
know who you are. If a single shirt can create seemingly unending 
media mentions and doesn’t hurt your reputation, it’s low-hanging 
fruit. On top of that: “It also saved me a lot of time thinking about 
what to wear and a lot of money that would’ve been wasted on 
suits.”

WHEN THE GOING GETS TOUGH —  
“TONIGHT, I WILL BE IN MY BED.”
In 2009, Chris did a charity bicycle ride with the Trek Travel team 
from Santa Barbara, California, to Charleston, North Carolina:
  “I had a phrase I kept repeating in my head over and over 
again, which was, ‘Tonight, I will be in my bed. Tonight, I will be 
in my bed. Tonight, I will be in my bed.’ . . . It was something I 
repeated to remind me that the pain of what I was going through 
was temporary and that, no matter what, at the end of that day, I 
would be in my bed that night.”

ON THE ADVANTAGE OF CULTIVATING 
BEGINNER’S MIND
“Experience often deeply embeds the assumptions that need 
to be questioned in the first place. When you have a lot of 
experience with something, you don’t notice the things that are 
new about it. You don’t notice the idiosyncrasies that need to be 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 299

tweaked. You don’t notice where the gaps are, what’s missing, or 
what’s not really working.”
  TF: Just like Malcolm Gladwell’s dad (see page 573) and Alex 
Blumberg (page 303), Chris is incredibly smart about asking the 
“dumb” questions hiding in plain sight.

EMPATHY ISN’T JUST GOOD FOR LIFE, 
IT’S GOOD FOR BUSINESS
“As a builder, as an entrepreneur, how can you create something 
for someone else if you don’t have even enough glancing familiar-
ity with them to imagine the world through their eyes?”

SWEET AND SOUR SUMMERS
“There is something my parents did, and it was pretty unique. 
My brother and I refer to it as ‘The Sweet and Sour Summer.’ 
My parents would send us, for the first half of the summer, to an 
internship with a relative or a friend of the family who had an 
interesting job. So, at 12, I went and interned with my godbrother,
who is a lobbyist in D.C. I would go along with him to pitch 
congressmen. I had one tie, and I was a pretty good writer. I’d 
write up one-page summaries of these bills we were pitching, 
and I’d literally sit there with these congressmen with these filthy 
mouths—you know, the old Alabaman senator and stuff like 
that—and watch the pitch happen. It was awesome. I learned so 
much and developed so much confidence, and really honed my 
storytelling skills.
  “But then, from there, I would come home and work in a con-
struction outfit, in a nasty, nasty job. I mean, hosing off the equip-
ment that had been used to fix septic systems, gassing shit up, 
dragging shit around in the yard, filling up propane tanks. Just 
being the junior guy on the totem pole, and quite literally getting 
my ass kicked by whichever parolee was angry at me that day. I 
300 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

think it was part of their master plan, which was: There’s a world 
of cool opportunities out there for you, but let’s build within you 
a sense of not just work ethic, but also, a little kick in the ass about 
why you don’t wanna end up in one of those real jobs. . . .”
  TIM: “You had the introduction to the godbrother, for the lob-
bying. Did your parents also help organize the sour part of each 
summer?”
  CHRIS: “The guy who ran that construction company is my 
dad’s best friend, and he was under strict orders to make sure we 
had the roughest day there.”

“GOOD STORIES ALWAYS BEAT GOOD SPREADSHEETS”
“Whether you are raising money, pitching your product to cus-
tomers, selling the company, or recruiting employees, never for-
get that underneath all the math and the MBA bullshit talk, we 
are all still emotionally driven human beings. We want to attach 
ourselves to narratives. We don’t act because of equations. We 
follow our beliefs. We get behind leaders who stir our feelings. 
In the early days of your venture, if you find someone diving too 
deep into the numbers, that means they are struggling to find a 
reason to deeply care about you.”

“BE YOUR UNAPOLOGETICALLY WEIRD SELF”
“I gave a commencement speech in Minnesota few years ago [at 
the Carlson School of Management]. The core of it was tobe  
your unapologetically weird self. I think authenticity is one of 
the most lacking things out there these days.”
  An excerpt from that speech: “Weirdness is why we adore our 
friends. . . . Weirdness is what bonds us to our colleagues. Weird-
ness is what sets us apart, gets us hired. Be your unapologetically 
weird self. In fact, being weird may even find you the ultimate 
happiness.”
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 301

  TF: As an example—mullet wigs.
  CHRIS: “If you could bring one thing to make for an amazing 
party night, it’s wigs, seriously. Go to Amazon right now and order 
50 mullet wigs. Mullet wigs change everything.”
AMELIA BOONE

Amelia Boone (Twitter: @ameliaboone, ameliabooneracing.com) 
has been called “the Michael Jordan of obstacle course racing” 
(OCR) and is widely considered the world’s most decorated obsta-
cle racer. Since the inception of the sport, she’s amassed more than 
30 victories and 50 podiums. In the 2012 World’s Toughest Mud-
der competition, which lasts 24 hours (she covered 90 miles and 
~300 obstacles), she finished second OVERALL out of more than 
1,000 competitors, 80% of whom were male. The one person who 
beat her finished just 8 minutes ahead of her. Her major victories 
include the Spartan Race World Championship and the Spartan 
Race Elite Point Series, and she is the only three-time winner of 
the World’s Toughest Mudder (2012, 2014, and 2015). She won the 
2014 championship 8 weeks after knee surgery. Amelia is also a 
threetime finisher of the Death Race, a full-time attorney at Apple, 
and she dabbles in ultra running (qualified for the Western States 
100) in all of her spare time.

     “I’m not the strongest. I’m not the fastest. 
     But I’m really good at suffering.” 

✱ What would you put on a billboard?
“No one owes you anything.”
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 303

✱ Amelia’s best $100 or less purchase?
Manuka honey bandages. Amelia has scars all over her shoulders 
and back from barbed-wire wounds.

✱ Most-gifted or recommended book
House of Leaves by Mark Danielewski: “This is a book that you 
have to hold, because there are parts of it where you need to turn 
it upside down to read it. There are certain pages where, you are 
reading it, and it turns in a circle. . . . This is a book that’s an entire 
sensory experience.”

AMELIA’S TIPS AND TACTICS

➢  Hydrolyzed gelatin + beet root powder: I’ve consumed gela-
  tin for connective tissue repair in the past. I’ve never stuck 
  with it long term because gelatin takes on a seagull poo–like 
  texture when mixed into cold water. Amelia saved my palate 
  and joints by introducing me to the Great Lakes hydrolyzed 
  version (green label), which blends easily and smoothly. 
  Add a tablespoon of beet root powder like BeetElite to stave 
  off any cow-hoof flavor, and it’s a whole new game. Amelia 
  uses BeetElite pre-race and pre-training for its endurance 
  benefits, but I’m much harder-core: I use it to make tart, 
  low-carb gummy bears when fat Tim has carb cravings.

➢  RumbleRoller: Think foam roller meets monster-truck tire. 
  Foam rollers have historically done very little for me, but 
  this torture device had an immediate positive impact on 
  my recovery. (It also helps you sleep if used before bed.) 
  Warning: Start slow. I tried to copy Amelia and did 20-plus 
  minutes my first session. The next day, I felt like I’d been put 
  in a sleeping bag and swung against a tree for a few hours.
304 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 2

➢  Rolling your foot on top of a golf ball on the floor to 
   increase “hamstring” flexibility. This is infinitely more help-
   ful than a lacrosse ball. Put a towel on the floor underneath 
   the golf ball, lest you shoot your dog’s eye out.

➢  Concept2 SkiErg for training when your lower body is 
   injured. After knee surgery, Amelia used this low-impact 
   machine to maintain cardiovascular endurance and prepare 
   for the 2014 World’s Toughest Mudder, which she won 8 
   weeks post-op. Kelly Starrett (page 122) is also a big fan of 
   this device.

➢  Dry needling: I’d never heard of this before meeting Amelia. 
   “[In acupuncture] the goal is not to feel the needle. In dry-
   needling, you are sticking the needle in the muscle belly 
   and trying to get it to twitch, and the twitch is the release.” 
   It’s used for super-tight, over-contracted muscles, and the 
   needles are not left in. Unless you’re a masochist, don’t have 
   this done on your calves.

➢  Sauna for endurance: Amelia has found using a sauna 
   improves her endurance, a concept that has since been 
   confirmed by several other athletes, including cyclist David 
   Zabriskie, seven-time U.S. National Time Trial Champion-
   ship winner. He considers sauna training a more practical 
   replacement for high-altitude simulation tents. In the 2005 
   Tour de France, Dave won the Stage 1 time trial, making 
   him the first American to win stages in all three Grand 
   Tours. Zabriskie beat Lance Armstrong by seconds, clock-
   ing an average speed of 54.676 kilometers per hour (!). I 
   now use a sauna at least four times per week. To figure out 
   the best protocols, I asked another podcast guest, Rhonda 
   Patrick. Her response is on page 7.
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 305

✱ Who do you think of when you hear the word “successful”?
“Triple H is a great example [of someone who’s transitioned 
extremely well from athlete to business executive]. So, Paul 
Levesque.” (See page 128.)

RANDOM FACTS

➢  Amelia eats Pop-Tarts as part of her ritual pre-competition 
  breakfast.

➢  Her record for unbroken double-unders (passing a jump 
  rope under your feet twice with one jump) is 423, and is 
  thus able to impress all CrossFitters. Unbeknownst to them, 
  she was a state jump rope champion in third grade. Also 
  unbeknownst to them, she ended at 423 because she had to 
  pee so badly that she peed her pants.

➢  Amelia loves doing training runs in the rain and cold, as she 
  knows her competition is probably opting out. This is an 
  example of “rehearsing the worst-case scenario” to become 
  more resilient (see page 474).

➢  She is a gifted a cappella singer and was part of the Green-
  leafs group at Washington University in St. Louis.
