VOLUME  3

VOLUME 3
    The Tao of Seneca, Volume 3
   Based on the Moral Letters to Lucilius by Seneca, 
       translated by Richard Mott Gummere.

          Loeb Classical Library® edition 
          Volume 1 first published 1917; 
         Volume 2 first published in 1920; 
          Volume 3 first published 1925.

  Loeb Classical Library is a registered trademark of 
    The President and Fellows of Harvard College.

      Front Cover Design by FivestarBranding™ 
             (www.fivestarlogo.com)

Book Interior Design and Typography by Laurie Griffin 
          (www.lauriegriffindesign.com)

                Printed in U.S.A.
THESE VOLUMES ARE DEDICATED 
  TO ALL WHO SEEK TO BETTER 
 THEMSELVES AND, IN DOING SO, 
       BETTER THE WORLD.

             —Tim Ferriss 
     TABLE OF CONTENTS


LETTER 93 On the Quality, as Contrasted With 
          the Length, of Life                            9
LETTER 94  On the Value of Advice[1]                    14

THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS:  
Ryan Holiday and Steve Hanselman                        37
LETTER 95  On the Usefulness of Basic Principles        39
LETTER 96  On Facing Hardships                          62
LETTER 97  On the Degeneracy of the Age                 65
LETTER 98  On the Fickleness of Fortune                 70
LETTER 99  On Consolation to the Bereaved               76
LETTER 100  On the Writings of Fabianus                 86
LETTER 101  On the Futility of Planning Ahead           91
LETTER 102  On the Intimations of Our Immortality       96
LETTER 103 On the Dangers of Association 
          With Our Fellow Men                          107
LETTER 104  On Care of Health and Peace of Mind        109
LETTER 105  On Facing the World With Confidence        120
LETTER 106  On the Corporeality of Virtue              123
THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS:  Ryan Holiday             126
LETTER 107  On Obedience to the Universal Will         134
LETTER 108  On the Approaches to Philosophy            138
LETTER 109  On the Fellowship of Wise Men              151
LETTER 110  On True and False Riches                   157
LETTER 111  On the Vanity of Mental Gymnastics         164
LETTER 112  On Reforming Hardened Sinners              166
LETTER 113  On the Vanity of the Soul and Its Attributes  168
LETTER 114  On Style as a Mirror of Character          177
LETTER 115  On the Superficial Blessings               187
LETTER 116  On Self-Control                            195
LETTER 117  On Real Ethics as Superior to Syllogistic Subtleties  198
LETTER 118  On the Vanity of Place-Seeking            209
LETTER 119  On Nature as Our Best Provider             215
LETTER 120  More About Virtue                          221
LETTER 121  On Instinct in Animals                     229
LETTER 122  On Darkness as a Veil for Wickedness       237
LETTER 123  On the Conflict Between Pleasure and Virtue  245
LETTER 124  On the True Good as Attained by Reason     251
Profiles of Modern-Day Stoics From Tools of Titans: 
Arnold Schwarzenegger, Naval Ravikant                  259
Appendix                                               281
Index of Proper Names                                  283
Subject Index                                         305

             SUGGESTED 
         SHORT READING
                       A
If you ever feel overwhelmed by longer reads in this book, below 
are a few 5–10-minute options that punch above their weight.
  Each of these blog posts explores how to apply practical phi-
losophies in the real world, and the first is the most important 
to me personally: 

 Fear-Setting: The Most Valuable Exercise I Do Every Month 
                (tim.blog/fear-setting)

     Stoicism 101: A Practical Guide for Entrepreneurs 
                (tim.blog/stoicism101)

    On The Shortness of Life: An Introduction to Seneca 
                 (tim.blog/shortness)

   How to Use Philosophy as a Personal Operating System: 
               From Seneca to Musashi 
                (tim.blog/philosophy)

           Discovering Kindness In The Storm 
                 (tim.blog/kindness)

     Stoicism for Modern Stresses: 5 Lessons from Cato 
                 (tim.blog/less-stress)
    Chinese: Ren De Xin Tian Di Tong
  English: The minds of human beings are 
     connected with heaven and earth.
(Read vertically from top right to bottom left. 
     Each character is one word above.)

        Calligrapher: Mak Ming Chan
                   LETTER 93
        On the Quality, as Contrasted 
            With the Length, of Life
                       A

While reading the letter in which you were lamenting the death 
of the philosopher Metronax[1] as if he might have, and indeed 
ought to have, lived longer, I missed the spirit of fairness which 
abounds in all your discussions concerning men and things, but 
is lacking when you approach one single subject—as is indeed the 
case with us all. In other words, I have noticed many who deal 
fairly with their fellow-men, but none who deals fairly with the 
gods. We rail every day at Fate, saying “Why has A. been carried 
off in the very middle of his career? Why is not B. carried off 
instead? Why should he prolong his old age, which is a burden 
to himself as well as to others?”
  But tell me, pray, do you consider it fairer that you should obey 
Nature, or that Nature should obey you? And what difference does 
it make how soon you depart from a place which you must depart 
from sooner or later? We should strive, not to live long, but to live 
rightly;[2] for to achieve long life you have need of Fate only, but 
for right living you need the soul. A life is really long if it is a full 
life; but fullness is not attained until the soul has rendered to itself 
its proper Good,[3] that is, until it has assumed control over itself.
  What benefit does this older man derive from the eighty years 
he has spent in idleness? A person like him has not lived; he 
10  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

has merely tarried awhile in life. Nor has he died late in life; he 
has simply been a long time dying. He has lived eighty years, 
has he? That depends upon the date from which you reckon his 
death! Your other friend,[4] however, departed in the bloom of 
his manhood.
  But he had fulfilled all the duties of a good citizen, a good 
friend, a good son; in no respect had he fallen short. His age may 
have been incomplete, but his life was complete. The other man 
has lived eighty years, has he? Nay, he has existed eighty years, 
unless perchance you mean by “he has lived” what we mean when 
we say that a tree “lives.”
  Pray, let us see to it, my dear Lucilius, that our lives, like jew-
els of great price, be noteworthy not because of their width but 
because of their weight.[5] Let us measure them by their perfor-
mance, not by their duration. Would you know wherein lies the 
difference between this hardy man who, despising Fortune, has 
served through every campaign of life and has attained to life’s 
Supreme Good, and that other person over whose head many 
years have passed? The former exists even after his death; the 
latter has died even before he was dead.[6]
  We should therefore praise, and number in the company of the 
blest, that man who has invested well the portion of time, how-
ever little, that has been allotted to him; for such a one has seen 
the true light. He has not been one of the common herd. He has 
not only lived, but flourished. Sometimes he enjoyed fair skies; 
sometimes, as often happens, it was only through the clouds that 
there flashed to him the radiance of the mighty star.[7] Why do 
you ask: “How long did he live?” He still lives! At one bound he 
has passed over into posterity and has consigned himself to the 
guardianship of memory.
  And yet I would not on that account decline for myself a few 
additional years; although, if my life’s space be shortened, I shall 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 11

not say that I have lacked aught that is essential to a happy life. For 
I have not planned to live up to the very last day that my greedy 
hopes had promised me; nay, I have looked upon every day as if 
it were my last. Why ask the date of my birth, or whether I am 
still enrolled on the register of the younger men?[8] What I have 
is my own. 
  Just as one of small stature can be a perfect man, so a life of 
small compass can be a perfect life. Age ranks among the external 
things.[9] How long I am to exist is not mine to decide, but how 
long I shall go on existing in my present way is in my own control. 
This is the only thing you have the right to require of me—that I 
shall cease to measure out an inglorious age as it were in darkness, 
and devote myself to living instead of being carried along past life.
  And what, you ask, is the fullest span of life? It is living until 
you possess wisdom. He who has attained wisdom has reached, 
not the furthermost, but the most important, goal. Such a one 
may indeed exult boldly and give thanks to the gods—aye, and 
to himself also—and he may count himself Nature’s creditor for 
having lived. He will indeed have the right to do so, for he has 
paid her back a better life than he has received. He has set up the 
pattern of a good man, showing the quality and the greatness of 
a good man. Had another year been added, it would merely have 
been like the past.
  And yet how long are we to keep living? We have had the joy of 
learning the truth about the universe. We know from what begin-
nings Nature arises; how she orders the course of the heavens; by 
what successive changes she summons back the year; how she has 
brought to an end all things that ever have been, and has estab-
lished herself as the only end of her own being.[10] We know that 
the stars move by their own motion, and that nothing except the 
earth stands still, while all the other bodies run on with uninter-
rupted swiftness.[11] We know how the moon outstrips the sun; 
12  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

why it is that the slower leaves the swifter behind; in what manner 
she receives her light, or loses it again; what brings on the night, 
and what brings back the day. To that place you must go where 
you are to have a closer view of all these things.
  “And yet,” says the wise man, “I do not depart more valiantly 
because of this hope—because I judge the path lies clear before 
me to my own gods. I have indeed earned admission to their 
presence, and in fact have already been in their company; I have 
sent my soul to them as they had previously sent theirs to me. 
But suppose that I am utterly annihilated, and that after death 
nothing mortal remains; I have no less courage, even if, when I 
depart, my course leads—nowhere.”
  “But,” you say, “he has not lived as many years as he might 
have lived.”
  There are books which contain very few lines, admirable and 
useful in spite of their size; and there are also the Annals of Tanu-
sius[12]—you know how bulky the book is, and what men say of 
it. This is the case with the long life of certain persons—a state 
which resembles the Annals of Tanusius!
  Do you regard as more fortunate the fighter who is slain on 
the last day of the games than one who goes to his death in the 
middle of the festivities? Do you believe that anyone is so fool-
ishly covetous of life that he would rather have his throat cut in 
the dressing-room than in the amphitheatre? It is by no longer an 
interval than this that we precede one another. Death visits each 
and all; the slayer soon follows the slain. It is an insignificant trifle, 
after all, that people discuss with so much concern. And anyhow, 
what does it matter for how long a time you avoid that which you 
cannot escape? Farewell.
Footnotes
  1. A philosopher of Naples, mentioned as giving lectures there: cf. Ep. 
  lxxvi. 4.
  2. i.e., “adequately,” equivalent to ὠς δεῖ.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     13

  3. For a complete definition of the Supreme Good cf. Ep. lxxi. 4 ff.
  4. i.e., the Metronax mentioned above.
  5. For the same phrase see Ep. lxvi. 30 and footnote.
  6. Cf. Ep. lx. 4 mortem suam antecesserunt.
  7. i.e., the Sun.
  8. As in the original comitia centuriata, men between the ages of seventeen 
   and forty-six.
  9. As riches, health, etc.
10. i.e., Nature herself is eternal.
11. See, however, Seneca, N. Q. vii. 2. 3 sciamus utrum mundus terra stante 
   circumeat an mundo stante terra vertatur. For doubts and discoveries cf. 
   Arnold, Roman Stoicism, pp. 178 f.
12. See Index of Proper Names.
                    LETTER 94
            On the Value of Advice    [1]
                        A

That department of philosophy which supplies precepts[2] appro-
priate to the individual case, instead of framing them for mankind 
at large—which, for instance, advises how a husband should con-
duct himself towards his wife, or how a father should bring up his 
children, or how a master should rule his slaves—this department 
of philosophy, I say, is accepted by some as the only significant 
part, while the other departments are rejected on the ground that 
they stray beyond the sphere of practical needs—as if any man 
could give advice concerning a portion of life without having first 
gained a knowledge of the sum of life as a whole!
  But Aristo the Stoic, on the contrary, believes[3] the above-
mentioned department to be of slight import—he holds that it 
does not sink into the mind, having in it nothing but old wives’ 
precepts, and that the greatest benefit is derived from the actual 
dogmas of philosophy and from the definition of the Supreme 
Good. When a man has gained a complete understanding of this 
definition and has thoroughly learned it, he can frame for himself 
a precept directing what is to be done in a given case.
  Just as the student of javelin-throwing keeps aiming at a fixed 
target and thus trains the hand to give direction to the missile, 
and when, by instruction and practice, he has gained the desired 
ability he can then employ it against any target he wishes (having 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 15

learned to strike not any random object, but precisely the object at 
which he has aimed)—he who has equipped himself for the whole 
of life does not need to be advised concerning each separate item, 
because he is now trained to meet his problem as a whole; for he 
knows not merely how he should live with his wife or his son, but 
how he should live aright. In this knowledge there is also included 
the proper way of living with wife and children.
  Cleanthes holds that this department of wisdom is indeed use-
ful, but that it is a feeble thing unless it is derived from general 
principles—that is, unless it is based upon a knowledge of the 
actual dogmas of philosophy and its main headings. This subject 
is therefore twofold, leading to two separate lines of inquiry: first, 
Is it useful or useless? and, and second, can it of itself produce a 
good man?—in other words, Is it superfluous, or does it render 
all other departments superfluous?
  Those who urge the view that this department is superfluous 
argue as follows: “If an object that is held in front of the eyes 
interferes with the vision, it must be removed. For just as long as 
it is in the way, it is a waste of time to offer such precepts as these: 
‘Walk thus and so; extend your hand in that direction.’ Similarly, 
when something blinds a man’s soul and hinders it from seeing 
a line of duty clearly, there is no use in advising him: ‘Live thus 
and so with your father, thus and so with your wife.’ For precepts 
will be of no avail while the mind is clouded with error; only 
when the cloud is dispersed will it be clear what one’s duty is in 
each case. Otherwise, you will merely be showing the sick man 
what he ought to do if he were well, instead of making him well.
  Suppose you are trying to reveal to the poor man the art of ‘act-
ing rich’; how can the thing be accomplished as long as his poverty 
is unaltered? You are trying to make clear to a starveling in what 
manner he is to act the part of one with a well-filled stomach; 
16  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

the first requisite, however, is to relieve him of the hunger that 
grips his vitals.
  “The same thing, I assure you, holds good of all faults; the faults 
themselves must be removed, and precepts should not be given 
which cannot possibly be carried out while the faults remain. 
Unless you drive out the false opinions under which we suffer, 
the miser will never receive instruction as to the proper use of 
his money, nor the coward regarding the way to scorn danger.
  You must make the miser know that money is neither a good 
nor an evil;[4] show him men of wealth who are miserable to the 
last degree. You must make the coward know that the things 
which generally frighten us out of our wits are less to be feared 
than rumour advertises them to be, whether the object of fear be 
suffering or death; that when death comes—fixed by law for us 
all to suffer—it is often a great solace to reflect that it can never 
come again; that in the midst of suffering resoluteness of soul 
will be as good as a cure, for the soul renders lighter any burden 
that it endures with stubborn defiance. Remember that pain has 
this most excellent quality: if prolonged it cannot be severe, and 
if severe it cannot be prolonged;[5] and that we should bravely 
accept whatever commands the inevitable laws of the universe 
lay upon us.
  “When by means of such doctrines you have brought the erring 
man to a sense of his own condition, when he has learned that the 
happy life is not that which conforms to pleasure, but that which 
conforms to Nature, when he has fallen deeply in love with virtue 
as man’s sole good and has avoided baseness as man’s sole evil, 
and when he knows that all other things—riches, office, health, 
strength, dominion—fall in between and are not to be reckoned 
either among goods or among evils, then he will not need a moni-
tor for every separate action, to say to him: ‘Walk thus and so, eat 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 17

thus and so. This is the conduct proper for a man and that for a 
woman; this for a married man and that for a bachelor.’
  Indeed, the persons who take the greatest pains to proffer such 
advice are themselves unable to put it into practice. It is thus 
that the pedagogue advises the boy, and the grandmother her 
grandson; it is the hottest-tempered schoolmaster who contends 
that one should never lose one’s temper. Go into an elementary 
school, and you will learn that just such pronouncements, ema-
nating from high-browed philosophers, are to be found in the 
lesson-book for boys!
  “Shall you then offer precepts that are clear, or precepts that are 
doubtful? Those which are clear need no counsellor, and doubtful 
precepts gain no credence; so the giving of precepts is superflu-
ous. Indeed you should study the problem in this way: if you are 
counselling someone on a matter which is of doubtful clearness 
and doubtful meaning, you must supplement your precepts by 
proofs; and if you must resort to proofs, your means of proof are 
more effective and more satisfactory in themselves.
  ‘It is thus that you must treat your friend, thus your fellow 
citizen, thus your associate.’ And why? ‘Because it is just.’ Yet I can 
find all that material included under the head of Justice. I find 
there that fair play is desirable in itself, that we are not forced into 
it by fear nor hired to that end for pay, and that no man is just who 
is attracted by anything in this virtue other than the virtue itself. 
After convincing myself of this view and thoroughly absorbing 
it, what good can I obtain from such precepts, which only teach 
one who is already trained? To one who knows, it is superfluous 
to give precepts; to one who does not know, it is insufficient. For 
he must be told, not only what he is being instructed to do, but 
also why.
  I repeat, are such precepts useful to him who has correct ideas 
about good and evil, or to one who has them not? The latter will 
18  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

receive no benefit from you; for some idea that clashes with your 
counsel has already monopolized his attention. He who has made 
a careful decision as to what should be sought and what should 
be avoided knows what he ought to do, without a single word 
from you. Therefore, that whole department of philosophy may 
be abolished.
  “There are two reasons why we go astray: either there is in 
the soul an evil quality which has been brought about by wrong 
opinions, or, even if not possessed by false ideas, the soul is prone 
to falsehood and rapidly corrupted by some outward appearance 
which attracts it in the wrong direction. For this reason it is our 
duty either to treat carefully the diseased mind and free it from 
faults, or to take possession of the mind when it is still unoccupied 
and yet inclined to what is evil. Both these results can be attained 
by the main doctrines of philosophy; therefore the giving of such 
precepts is of no use.
  Besides, if we give forth precepts to each individual, the task is 
stupendous. For one class of advice should be given to the finan-
cier, another to the farmer, another to the business man, another 
to one who cultivates the good graces of royalty, another to him 
who will seek the friendship of his equals, another to him who 
will court those of lower rank.
  In the case of marriage, you will advise one person how he 
should conduct himself with a wife who before her marriage was 
a maiden, and another how he should behave with a woman who 
had previously been wedded to another; how the husband of a 
rich woman should act, or another man with a dowerless spouse. 
Or do you not think that there is some difference between a bar-
ren woman and one who bears children, between one advanced 
in years and a mere girl, between a mother and a step-mother? We 
cannot include all the types, and yet each type requires separate 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 19

treatment; but the laws of philosophy are concise and are bind-
ing in all cases.
  Moreover, the precepts of wisdom should be definite and cer-
tain: when things cannot be defined, they are outside the sphere 
of wisdom; for wisdom knows the proper limits of things.
  “We should therefore do away with this department of precepts, 
because it cannot afford to all what it promises only to a few; 
wisdom, however, embraces all.
  Between the insanity of people in general and the insanity 
which is subject to medical treatment there is no difference, 
except that the latter is suffering from disease and the former 
from false opinions.[6] In the one case, the symptoms of madness 
may be traced to ill-health; the other is the ill-health of the mind. 
If one should offer precepts to a madman—how he ought to speak, 
how he ought to walk, how he ought to conduct himself in public 
and private, he would be more of a lunatic than the person whom 
he was advising. What is really necessary is to treat the black bile[7] 
and remove the essential cause of the madness. And this is what 
should also be done in the other case—that of the mind diseased. 
The madness itself must be shaken off; otherwise, your words of 
advice will vanish into thin air.”
  This is what Aristo says; and I shall answer his arguments one 
by one. First, in opposition to what he says about one’s obligation 
to remove that which blocks the eye and hinders the vision. I 
admit that such a person does not need precepts in order to see, 
but that he needs treatment for the curing of his eyesight and the 
getting rid of the hindrance that handicaps him. For it is Nature 
that gives us our eyesight; and he who removes obstacles restores 
to Nature her proper function. But Nature does not teach us our 
duty in every case.
  Again, if a man’s cataract is cured, he cannot, immediately after 
his recovery, give back their eyesight to other men also; but when 
20  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

we are freed from evil we can free others also. There is no need 
of encouragement, or even of counsel, for the eye to be able to 
distinguish different colours; black and white can be differenti-
ated without prompting from another. The mind, on the other 
hand, needs many precepts in order to see what it should do in 
life; although in eye-treatment also the physician not only accom-
plishes the cure, but gives advice into the bargain.
  He says: “There is no reason why you should at once expose 
your weak vision to a dangerous glare; begin with darkness, and 
then go into half-lights, and finally be more bold, accustoming 
yourself gradually to the bright light of day. There is no reason 
why you should study immediately after eating; there is no reason 
why you should impose hard tasks upon your eyes when they are 
swollen and inflamed; avoid winds and strong blasts of cold air 
that blow into your face,”—and other suggestions of the same sort, 
which are just as valuable as drugs themselves. The physician’s art 
supplements remedies by advice.
  “But,” comes the reply, “error is the source of sin;[8] precepts do 
not remove error, nor do they rout our false opinions on the sub-
ject of Good and Evil.” I admit that precepts alone are not effective 
in overthrowing the mind’s mistaken beliefs; but they do not on 
that account fail to be of service when they accompany other 
measures also. In the first place, they refresh the memory; in the 
second place, when sorted into their proper classes, the matters 
which showed themselves in a jumbled mass when considered as 
a whole, can be considered in this with greater care. According 
to our opponents[9] theory, you might even say that consolation, 
and exhortation were superfluous. Yet they are not superfluous; 
neither, therefore, is counsel.
  “But it is folly,” they retort, “to prescribe what a sick man ought 
to do, just as if he were well, when you should really restore his 
health; for without health precepts are not worth a jot.” But have 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 21

not sick men and sound men something in common, concern-
ing which they need continual advice? For example, not to grasp 
greedily after food, and to avoid getting over-tired. Poor and rich 
have certain precepts which fit them both.
  “Cure their greed, then,” people say, “and you will not need to 
lecture either the poor or the rich, provided that in the case of 
each of them the craving has subsided.” But is it not one thing to 
be free from lust for money, and another thing to know how to 
use this money? Misers do not know the proper limits in money 
matters, but even those who are not misers fail to comprehend its 
use. Then comes the reply: “Do away with error, and your precepts 
become unnecessary.” That is wrong; for suppose that avarice is 
slackened, that luxury is confined, that rashness is reined in, and 
that laziness is pricked by the spur; even after vices are removed, 
we must continue to learn what we ought to do, and how we 
ought to do it.
  “Nothing,” it is said, “will be accomplished by applying advice 
to the more serious faults.” No; and not even medicine can mas-
ter incurable diseases; it is nevertheless used in some cases as 
a remedy, in others as a relief. Not even the power of universal 
philosophy, though it summon all its strength for the purpose, 
will remove from the soul what is now a stubborn and chronic 
disease. But Wisdom, merely because she cannot cure everything, 
is not incapable of making cures.
  People say: “What good does it do to point out the obvious?” 
A great deal of good; for we sometimes know facts without pay-
ing attention to them. Advice is not teaching; it merely engages 
the attention and rouses us, and concentrates the memory, and 
keeps it from losing grip. We miss much that is set before our very 
eyes. Advice is, in fact, a sort of exhortation.[10] The mind often 
tries not to notice even that which lies before our eyes; we must 
therefore force upon it the knowledge of things that are perfectly 
22  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

well known. One might repeat here the saying of Calvus about 
Vatinius:[11] “You all know that bribery has been going on, and 
everyone knows that you know it.”
  You know that friendship should be scrupulously honoured, 
and yet you do not hold it in honour. You know that a man does 
wrong in requiring chastity of his wife while he himself is intrigu-
ing with the wives of other men; you know that, as your wife 
should have no dealings with a lover, neither should you your-
self with a mistress; and yet you do not act accordingly. Hence, 
you must be continually brought to remember these facts; for 
they should not be in storage, but ready for use. And whatever is 
wholesome should be often discussed and often brought before 
the mind, so that it may be not only familiar to us, but also ready 
to hand. And remember, too, that in this way what is clear often 
becomes clearer.
  “But if,” comes the answer, “your precepts are not obvious, you 
will be bound to add proofs; hence the proofs, and not the pre-
cepts, will be helpful.” But cannot the influence of the monitor 
avail even without proofs? It is like the opinions of a legal expert, 
which hold good even though the reasons for them are not deliv-
ered. Moreover, the precepts which are given are of great weight 
in themselves, whether they be woven into the fabric of song, or 
condensed into prose proverbs, like the famous Wisdom of Cato[12] 
“Buy not what you need, but what you must have. That which 
you do not need, is dear even at a farthing.” Or those oracular 
or oracular-like replies, such as “Be thrifty with time!” “Know 
thyself!” Shall you need to be told the meaning when someone 
repeats to you lines like these:

     Forgetting trouble is the way to cure it.[13]

     Fortune favours the brave, but the coward is foiled by his 
     faint heart.[14]
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 23

  Such maxims need no special pleader; they go straight to our 
emotions, and help us simply because Nature is exercising her 
proper function.
  The soul carries within itself the seed of everything that is hon-
ourable, and this seed is stirred to growth by advice, as a spark 
that is fanned by a gentle breeze develops its natural fire. Virtue 
is aroused by a touch, a shock. Moreover, there are certain things 
which, though in the mind, yet are not ready to hand but begin to 
function easily as soon as they are put into words. Certain things 
lie scattered about in various places, and it is impossible for the 
unpracticed mind to arrange them in order. Therefore, we should 
bring them into unity, and join them, so that they may be more 
powerful and more of an uplift to the soul.
  Or, if precepts do not avail at all, then every method of instruc-
tion should be abolished, and we should be content with Nature 
alone.
  Those who maintain this view[15] do not understand that one 
man is lively and alert of wit, another sluggish and dull, while cer-
tainly some men have more intelligence than others. The strength 
of the wit is nourished and kept growing by precepts; it adds new 
points of view to those which are inborn and corrects depraved 
ideas.
  “But suppose,” people retort, “that a man is not the possessor 
of sound dogmas, how can advice help him when he is chained 
down by vicious dogmas?” In this, assuredly, that he is freed 
there-from; for his natural disposition has not been crushed, but 
over-shadowed and kept down. Even so it goes on endeavouring 
to rise again, struggling against the influences that make for evil; 
but when it wins support and receives the aid of precepts, it grows 
stronger, provided only that the chronic trouble has not corrupted 
or annihilated the natural man. For in such a case, not even the 
training that comes from philosophy, striving with all its might, 
24  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

will make restoration. What difference, indeed—is there between 
the dogmas of philosophy and precepts, unless it be this—that the 
former are general and the latter special? Both deal with advice—
the one through the universal, the other through the particular.
  Some say: “If one is familiar with upright and honourable dog-
mas, it will be superfluous to advise him.” By no means; for this 
person has indeed learned to do things which he ought to do; but 
he does not see with sufficient clearness what these things are. 
For we are hindered from accomplishing praiseworthy deeds not 
only by our emotions, but also by want of practice in discovering 
the demands of a particular situation. Our minds are often under 
good control, and yet at the same time are inactive and untrained 
in finding the path of duty—and advice makes this clear.
  Again, it is written: “Cast out all false opinions concerning 
Good and Evil, but replace them with true opinions; then advice 
will have no function to perform.” Order in the soul can doubt-
less be established in this way; but these are not the only ways. 
For although we may infer by proofs just what Good and Evil are, 
nevertheless precepts have their proper rôle. Prudence and justice 
consist of certain duties; and duties are set in order by precepts.
  Moreover, judgment as to Good and Evil is itself strengthened 
by following up our duties, and precepts conduct us to this end. 
For both are in accord with each other; nor can precepts take the 
lead unless the duties follow. They observe their natural order; 
hence precepts clearly come first.
  “Precepts,” it is said “are numberless.” Wrong again! For they 
are not numberless so far as concerns important and essential 
things. Of course there are slight distinctions, due to the time, 
or the place, or the person; but even in these cases, precepts are 
given which have a general application.
  “No one, however,” it is said, “cures madness by precepts, and 
therefore not wickedness either.” There is a distinction; for if 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 25

you rid a man of insanity, he becomes sane again, but if we have 
removed false opinions, insight into practical conduct does not 
at once follow. Even though it follows, counsel will none the less 
confirm one’s right opinion concerning Good and Evil. And it 
is also wrong to believe that precepts are of no use to madmen. 
For though, by themselves, they are of no avail, yet they are a 
help towards the cure.[16] Both scolding and chastening rein in a 
lunatic. Note that I here refer to lunatics whose wits are disturbed 
but not hopelessly gone.
  “Still,” it is objected, “laws do not always make us do what we 
ought to do; and what else are laws than precepts mingled with 
threats?” Now first of all, the laws do not persuade just because 
they threaten; precepts, however, instead of coercing, correct 
men by pleading. Again, laws frighten one out of communicat-
ing crime, while precepts urge a man on to his duty. Besides, the 
laws also are of assistance towards good conduct, at any rate if 
they instruct as well as command.
  On this point I disagree with Posidonius, who says: “I do not 
think that Plato’s Laws should have the preambles[17] added to 
them. For a law should be brief, in order that the uninitiated may 
grasp it all the more easily. It should be a voice, as it were, sent 
down from heaven; it should command, not discuss. Nothing 
seems to me more dull or more foolish than a law with a preamble. 
Warn me, tell me what you wish me to do; I am not learning but 
obeying.” But laws framed in this way are helpful; hence you will 
notice that a state with defective laws will have defective morals.
  “But,” it is said, “they are not of avail in every case.” Well neither 
is philosophy; and yet philosophy is not on that account ineffec-
tual and useless in the training of the soul. Furthermore, is not 
philosophy the Law of Life? Grant, if we will, that the laws do not 
avail; it does not necessarily follow that advice also should not 
avail. On this ground, you ought to say that consolation does not 
26  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

avail, and warning, and exhortation, and scolding, and praising; 
since they are all varieties of advice. It is by such methods that we 
arrive at a perfect condition of mind.
  Nothing is more successful in bringing honourable influences 
to bear upon the mind, or in straightening out the wavering spirit 
that is prone to evil, than association with good men.[18] For the 
frequent seeing, the frequent hearing of them little by little sinks 
into the heart and acquires the force of precepts.
  We are indeed uplifted merely by meeting wise men; and one 
can be helped by a great man even when he is silent.
  I could not easily tell you how it helps us, though I am certain 
of the fact that I have received help in that way. Phaedo[19] says: 
“Certain tiny animals do not leave any pain when they sting us; 
so subtle is their power, so deceptive for purposes of harm. The 
bite is disclosed by a swelling, and even in the swelling there is no 
visible wound.” That will also be your experience when dealing 
with wise men, you will not discover how or when the benefit 
comes to you, but you will discover that you have received it.
  “What is the point of this remark?” you ask. It is, that good 
precepts, often welcomed within you, will benefit you just as much 
as good examples. Pythagoras declares that our souls experience 
a change when we enter a temple and behold the images of the 
gods face to face, and await the utterances of an oracle.
  Moreover, who can deny that even the most inexperienced are 
effectively struck by the force of certain precepts? For example, by 
such brief but weighty saws as: “Nothing in excess,” “The greedy 
mind is satisfied by no gains,” “You must expect to be treated by 
others as you yourself have treated them.”[20] We receive a sort if 
shock when we hear such sayings; no one ever thinks of doubting 
them or of asking “Why?” So strongly, indeed, does mere truth, 
unaccompanied by reason, attract us.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 27

  If reverence reins in the soul and checks vice, why cannot coun-
sel do the same? Also, if rebuke gives one a sense of shame, why 
has not counsel the same power, even though it does use bare 
precepts? The counsel which assists suggestion by reason—which 
adds the motive for doing a given thing and the reward which 
awaits one who carries out and obeys such precepts is—more 
effective and settles deeper into the heart. If commands are help-
ful, so is advice. But one is helped by commands; therefore one 
is helped also by advice.
  Virtue is divided into two parts—into contemplation of truth, 
and conduct. Training teaches contemplation, and admonition 
teaches conduct. And right conduct both practices and reveals 
virtue. But if, when a man is about to act, he is helped by advice, 
he is also helped by admonition. Therefore, if right conduct is 
necessary to virtue, and if, moreover, admonition makes clear 
right conduct, then admonition also is an indispensable thing.
  There are two strong supports to the soul—trust[21] in the 
truth and confidence; both are the result of admonition. For men 
believe it, and when belief is established, the soul receives great 
inspiration and is filled with confidence. Therefore, admonition 
is not superfluous.
  Marcus Agrippa, a great-souled man, the only person among 
those whom the civil wars raised to fame and power whose pros-
perity helped the state, used to say that he was greatly indebted to 
the proverb “Harmony makes small things grow; lack of harmony 
makes great things decay.”[22]
  He held that he himself became the best of brothers and the best 
of friends by virtue of this saying. And if proverbs of such a kind, 
when welcomed intimately into the soul, can mould this very 
soul, why cannot the department of philosophy which consists 
of such proverbs possess equal influence? Virtue depends partly 
upon training and partly upon practice; you must learn first, and 
28  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

then strengthen your learning by action. If this be true, not only 
do the doctrines of wisdom help us but the precepts also, which 
check and banish our emotions by a sort of official decree.
  It is said: “Philosophy is divided into knowledge and state of 
mind. For one who has learned and understood what he should 
do and avoid,[23] is not a wise man until his mind is metamor-
phosed into the shape of that which he has learned. This third 
department—that of precept—is compounded from both the 
others, from dogmas of philosophy and state of mind. Hence it 
is superfluous as far as the perfecting of virtue is concerned; the 
other two parts are enough for the purpose.”
  On that basis, therefore, even consolation would be superflu-
ous, since this also is a combination of the other two, as likewise 
are exhortation, persuasion, and even proof[24] itself. For proof 
also originates from a well-ordered and firm mental attitude. But, 
although these things result from a sound state of mind, yet the 
sound state of mind also results from them; it is both creative of 
them and resultant from them.
  Furthermore, that which you mention is the mark of an already 
perfect man, of one who has attained the height of human hap-
piness. But the approach to these qualities is slow, and in the 
meantime in practical matters, the path should be pointed out for 
the benefit of one who is still short of perfection, but is making 
progress. Wisdom by her own agency may perhaps show herself 
this path without the help of admonition; for she has brought the 
soul to a stage where it can be impelled only in the right direction. 
Weaker characters, however, need someone to precede them, to 
say: “Avoid this,” or “Do that.”
  Moreover, if one awaits the time when one can know of oneself 
what the best line of action is, one will sometimes go astray and by 
going astray will be hindered from arriving at the point where it is 
possible to be content with oneself. The soul should accordingly 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 29

be guided at the very moment when it is becoming able to guide 
itself.[25] Boys study according to direction. Their fingers are held 
and guided by others so that they may follow the outlines of the 
letters; next, they are ordered to imitate a copy and base thereon 
a style of penmanship. Similarly, the mind is helped if it is taught 
according to direction.
  Such facts as these prove that this department of philosophy 
is not superfluous.
  The question next arises whether this part alone is sufficient to 
make men wise. The problem shall be treated at the proper time; 
but at present, omitting all arguments, is it not clear that we need 
someone whom we may call upon as our preceptor in opposition 
to the precepts of men in general?
  There is no word which reaches our ears without doing us 
harm; we are injured both by good wishes and by curses. The 
angry prayers of our enemies instil false fears in us; and the affec-
tion of our friends spoils us through their kindly wishes. For this 
affection sets us a-groping after goods that are far away, unsure, 
and wavering, when we really might open the store of happiness 
at home.
  We are not allowed, I maintain, to travel a straight road. Our 
parents and our slaves draw us into wrong. Nobody confines his 
mistakes to himself; people sprinkle folly among their neighbours, 
and receive it from them in turn. For this reason, in an individual, 
you find the vices of nations, because the nation has given them 
to the individual. Each man, in corrupting others, corrupts him-
self; he imbibes, and then imparts, badness the result is a vast 
mass of wickedness, because the worst in every separate person 
is concentrated in one mass.[26]
  We should, therefore, have a guardian, as it were, to pluck us 
continually by the ear and dispel rumours and protest against 
popular enthusiasms. For you are mistaken if you suppose that 
30  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

our faults are inborn in us; they have come from without, have 
been heaped upon us. Hence, by receiving frequent admonitions, 
we can reject the opinions which din about our ears.
  Nature does not ally us with any vice; she produced us in health 
and freedom. She put before our eyes no object which might stir 
in us the itch of greed. She placed gold and silver beneath our 
feet, and bade those feet stamp down and crush everything that 
causes us to be stamped down and crushed. Nature elevated our 
gaze towards the sky and willed that we should look upward to 
behold her glorious and wonderful works. She gave us the rising 
and the setting sun, the whirling course of the on-rushing world 
which discloses the things of earth by day and the heavenly bod-
ies by night, the movements of the stars, which are slow if you 
compare them with the universe, but most rapid if you reflect 
on the size of the orbits which they describe with unslackened 
speed; she showed us the successive eclipses of sun and moon, 
and other phenomena, wonderful because they occur regularly 
or because, through sudden causes they help into view—such as 
nightly trails of fire, or flashes in the open heavens unaccompa-
nied by stroke or sound of thunder, or columns and beams and 
the various phenomena of flames.[27]
  She ordained that all these bodies should proceed above our 
heads; but gold and silver, with the iron which, because of the 
gold and silver, never brings peace, she has hidden away, as if they 
were dangerous things to trust to our keeping. It is we ourselves 
that have dragged them into the light of day to the end that we 
might fight over them; it is we ourselves who, tearing away the 
superincumbent earth, have dug out the causes and tools of our 
own destruction; it is we ourselves who have attributed our own 
misdeeds to Fortune, and do not blush to regard as the loftiest 
objects those which once lay in the depths of earth.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 31

  Do you wish to know how false is the gleam[28] that has deceived 
your eyes? There is really nothing fouler or more involved in dark-
ness than these things of earth, sunk and covered for so long 
a time in the mud where they belong. Of course they are foul; 
they have been hauled out through a long and murky mine-shaft. 
There is nothing uglier than these metals during the process of 
refinement and separation from the ore. Furthermore, watch the 
very workmen who must handle and sift the barren grade of dirt, 
the sort which comes from the bottom; see how soot-besmeared 
they are!
  And yet the stuff they handle soils the soul more than the body, 
and there is more foulness in the owner than in the workman.
  It is therefore indispensable that we be admonished, that we 
have some advocate with upright mind, and, amid all the uproar 
and jangle of falsehood, hear one voice only. But what voice shall 
this be? Surely a voice which, amid all the tumult of self-seeking, 
shall whisper wholesome words into the deafened ear, saying:
  “You need not be envious of those whom the people call great 
and fortunate; applause need not disturb your composed attitude 
and your sanity of mind; you need not become disgusted with 
your calm spirit because you see a great man, clothed in purple, 
protected by the well-known symbols of authority;[29] you need 
not judge the magistrate for whom the road is cleared to be any 
happier than yourself, whom his officer pushes from the road. If 
you would wield a command that is profitable to yourself, and 
injurious to nobody, clear your own faults out of the way.
  There are many who set fire to cities, who storm garrisons that 
have remained impregnable for generations and safe for numer-
ous ages, who raise mounds as high as the walls they are besieging, 
who with battering-rams and engines shatter towers that have 
been reared to a wondrous height. There are many who can send 
their columns ahead and press destructively upon the rear of the 
32  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

foe, who can reach the Great Sea[30] dripping with the blood of 
nations; but even these men, before they could conquer their 
foe, were conquered by their own greed. No one withstood their 
attack; but they themselves could not withstand desire for power 
and the impulse to cruelty; at the time when they seemed to be 
hounding others, they were themselves being hounded.
  Alexander was hounded into misfortune and dispatched to 
unknown countries by a mad desire to lay waste other men’s 
territory. Do you believe that the man was in his senses who 
could begin by devastating Greece, the land where he received 
his education? One who snatched away the dearest guerdon of 
each nation, bidding Spartans be slaves, and Athenians hold their 
tongues? Not content with the ruin of all the states which Philip 
had either conquered or bribed into bondage,[31] he overthrew var-
ious commonwealths in various places and carried his weapons 
all over the world; his cruelty was tired, but it never ceased—like 
a wild beast that tears to pieces more than its hunger demands.
  Already he has joined many kingdoms into one kingdom; 
already Greeks and Persians fear the same lord; already nations 
Darius had left free submit to the yoke:[32] yet he passes beyond 
the Ocean and the Sun, deeming it shame that he should shift his 
course of victory from the paths which Hercules and Bacchus had 
trod;[33] he threatens violence to Nature herself. He does not wish 
to go; but he cannot stay; he is like a weight that falls headlong, 
its course ending only when it lies motionless.
  It was not virtue or reason which persuaded Gnaeus Pompeius 
to take part in foreign and civil warfare; it was his mad craving 
for unreal glory. Now he attacked Spain and the faction of Ser-
torius;[34] now he fared forth to enchain the pirates and subdue 
the seas.[35] These were merely excuses and pretexts for extending 
his power.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 33

  What drew him into Africa, into the North, against Mithri-
dates, into Armenia and all the corners of Asia?[36] Assuredly it 
was his boundless desire to grow bigger; for only in his own eyes 
was he not great enough. And what impelled Gaius Caesar to the 
combined ruin of himself and of the state? Renown, self-seeking, 
and the setting no limit to pre-eminence over all other men. He 
could not allow a single person to outrank him, although the state 
allowed two men to stand at its head.
  Do you think that Gaius Marius, who was once consul[37] (he 
received this office on one occasion, and stole it on all the others) 
courted all his perils by the inspiration of virtue when he was 
slaughtering the Teutons and the Cimbri, and pursuing Jugurtha 
through the wilds of Africa?[38] Marius commanded armies, ambi-
tion Marius.
  When such men as these[39] were disturbing the world, they 
were themselves disturbed—like cyclones that whirl together 
what they have seized, but which are first whirled themselves 
and can for this reason rush on with all the greater force, having 
no control over themselves; hence, after causing such destruction 
to others, they feel in their own body the ruinous force which has 
enabled them to cause havoc to many. You need never believe that 
a man can become happy through the unhappiness of another.
  We must unravel all such cases[39] as are forced before our eyes 
and crammed into our ears; we must clear out our hearts, for they 
are full of evil talk. Virtue must be conducted into the place these 
have seized—a kind of virtue which may root out falsehood and 
doctrines which contravene the truth, or may sunder us from the 
throng, in which we put too great trust, and may restore us to 
the possession of sound opinions. For this is wisdom—a return 
to Nature and a restoration to the condition from which man’s 
errors have driven us.
34  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  It is a great part of health to have forsaken the counsellors 
of madness and to have fled far from a companionship that is 
mutually baneful.
  That you may know the truth of my remark, see how different is 
each individual’s life before the public from that of his inner self. 
A quiet life does not of itself give lessons in upright conduct; the 
countryside does not of itself teach plain living; no, but when wit-
nesses and onlookers are removed, faults which ripen in publicity 
and display sink into the background.
  Who puts on the purple robe for the sake of flaunting it in no 
man’s eyes? Who uses gold plate when he dines alone? Who, as 
he flings himself down beneath the shadow of some rustic tree, 
displays in solitude the splendour of his luxury? No one makes 
himself elegant only for his own beholding, or even for the admi-
ration of a few friends or relatives. Rather does he spread out his 
well-appointed vices in proportion to the size of the admiring 
crowd.
  It is so: claqueurs and witnesses are irritants of all our mad 
foibles. You can make us cease to crave, if you only make us cease 
to display. Ambition, luxury, and waywardness need a stage to act 
upon; you will cure all those ills if you seek retirement.
  Therefore, if our dwelling is situated amid the din of a city, 
there should be an adviser standing near us. When men praise 
great incomes, he should praise the person who can be rich with 
a slender estate and measures his wealth by the use he makes of 
it. In the face of those who glorify influence and power, he should 
of his own volition recommend a leisure devoted to study, and a 
soul which has left the external and found itself.
  He should point out persons, happy in the popular estimation, 
who totter on their envied heights of power, who are dismayed 
and hold a far different opinion of themselves from what others 
hold of them. That which others think elevated, is to them a sheer 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     35

precipice. Hence they are frightened and in a flutter whenever 
they look down the abrupt steep of their greatness. For they reflect 
that there are various ways of falling and that the topmost point 
is the most slippery.
   Then they fear that for which they strove, and the good fortune 
which made them weighty in the eyes of others weighs more 
heavily upon themselves. Then they praise easy leisure and inde-
pendence; they hate the glamour and try to escape while their for-
tunes are still unimpaired. Then at last you may see them studying 
philosophy amid their fear, and hunting sound advice when their 
fortunes go awry. For these two things are, as it were, at opposite 
poles—good fortune and good sense; that is why we are wiser 
when in the midst of adversity. It is prosperity that takes away 
righteousness. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. For technical terms in Epp. xciv. and xcv. see Appendix.
  2. See Cicero, De Off. i. 3. 7 ff. for a full discussion of principles and duties. 
   As one would expect, the Romans were more interested in practical 
   precepts than were the Greeks.
  3. Frag. 358 von Arnim.
  4. In other words, that it is one of the “external” things, media, indifferentia.
  5. Compare, among similar passages, Ep. xxiv. 14 levis es, si ferre possum, 
   brevis es, si ferre non possum.
  6. For the same figure, in the same connexion, see Ep. lxviii. 8 in pectore ipso 
   collectio et vomica est.
  7. By means of hellebore, Lat. veratrum, the favourite cathartic of the 
   ancients.
  8. This is in harmony with the idea of Socrates; sin is a lack of knowledge 
   regarding what is true and what is false.
  9. i.e., Aristo and others.
10. monitio  includes consolatio, dissuasio, obiurgatio, laudatio, and hortatio. 
   Cf. § 39 of this letter
11. Quoted also by Quintilian, vi. 1. 13. Between the years 58 and 54 B.C 
   Calvus, a friend of the poet Catullus, in three famous speeches prosecuted 
   Vatinius, one of the creatures of Caesar who had illegally obtained office.
12. Catonis Reliq. p. 79 Iordan.
13. From Publilius Syrus—Frag. 250 Ribbeck.
14. A verse made up from Vergil, Aen. x. 284, and an unknown author.
36    THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

15. i.e. who would abolish precepts.
16. A further answer to the objection in § 17 above, where all madness is held 
   curable by physical treatment.
17. See, for example, the Fifth Book, which opens with the preliminary 
   remarks of the Athenian Stranger (pp. 726-34 St.).
18. A frequent thought in Seneca, cf. Ep. xxv. 6, lii. 8, etc.
19. Presumably Phaedo the friend of Plato and pupil of Socrates, author of 
   dialogues resembling those of Plato.
20. Com. incert., Frag. 81 Ribbeck, and Pub. Syrus, Frag. 2 Ribbeck.
21. i.e., belief.
22. From Sallust, Jugurtha, x. 6.
23. Cf. Ep. xciv. 12 exactum indicium de fugiendis petendisque.
24. The last stage of knowledge—complete assent—according to the Stoic 
   view, which went beyond the mere sensation-theory of Epicurus.
25. In this whole discussion Seneca is a much sounder Stoic than Aristo 
   and the opposition. The next letter (Ep. xcv.) develops still further the 
   preceptive function of philosophy—through προκοπή (progress) to 
   μεταβολή (conversion).
26. This theme is carefully elaborated in Ep. vii., “On Crowds”: “There is no 
   person who does not make some vice attractive to us, or stamp it upon us, 
   or taint us unconsciously therewith” (§ 2).
27. These are fully discussed in Seneca’sNaturales  Quaestiones, a work almost 
   contemporary with the Letters.
28. Both literally and figuratively—the sheen of the metal and the glitter of 
   the false idea.
29. i.e., the bundle of rods and axes, carried by the attendants of a Roman 
   magistrate.
30. A name usually applied to the eastern end of the Mediterranean.
31. Especially Thebes in 335 B.C, which he sacked. Athens and Sparta were 
   treated with more consideration.
32. i.e., the Hyrcanians, and other tribes attacked during and after 330 B.C
33. Heracles in his various forms hails all the way from Tyre to the Atlantic 
   Ocean; Dionysus from India through Lydia, Thrace, and the Eastern 
   Mediterranean to Greece.
34. 76 B.C
35. 67 B.C
36. Beginning with the passage of the Manilian Law of 66 B.C
37. 107 B.C (also 104, 103, 102, 101, 100, and 86).
38. 102 and 101 B.C at Aquae Sextiae and Vercellae; the Jugurthine war lasted 
   from 109 to 106 B.C
30. i.e., as Pompeius, Caesar, Marius.
 
 THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS


   “Control and Choice” by Ryan Holiday 
             and Steve Hanselman
    Source: The Daily Stoic: 366 Meditations on Wisdom, 
            Perseverance, and the Art of Living


Background from Tim: Ryan Holiday (@RyanHoliday) is the 
bestselling author of multiple books, including The Obstacle Is 
the Way and Ego Is the Enemy. His books have been translated 
in twenty languages and his writing has appeared everywhere 
from the Columbia Journalism Review to Entrepreneur and Fast 
Company. He lives in Austin, Texas. Visit DailyStoic.com.
  Stephen Hanselman (@SteveHanselman) has worked for more 
than three decades in publishing as a bookseller, publisher and 
literary agent. He is a graduate of Harvard Divinity School, where 
he received a master’s degree while also studying extensively in 
Harvard’s philosophy department. He lives with his family in 
South Orange, New Jersey.

“The chief task in life is simply this: to identify and separate matters 
so that I can say clearly to myself which are externals not under my 
control, and which have to do with the choices I actually control. 
Where then do I look for good and evil? Not to uncontrollable 
externals, but within myself to the choices that are my own . . .” 
—Epictetus, Discourses, 2.5.4–5
38  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

The single most important practice in Stoic philosophy is dif-
ferentiating between what we can change and what we can’t. 
What we have influence over and what we do not. A flight is 
delayed because of weather—no amount of yelling at an airline 
representative will end a storm. No amount of wishing will make 
you taller or shorter or born in a different country. No matter 
how hard you try, you can’t make someone like you. And on top 
of that, time spent hurling yourself at these immovable objects is 
time not spent on the things we can change.
  The recovery community practices something called the Seren-
ity Prayer: “God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I 
cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the 
wisdom to know the difference.” Addicts cannot change the abuse 
suffered in childhood. They cannot undo the choices they have 
made or the hurt they have caused. But they can change the 
future—through the power they have in the present moment. As 
Epictetus said, they can control the choices they make right now.
  The same is true for us today. If we can focus on making clear 
what parts of our day are within our control and what parts are 
not, we will not only be happier, we will have a distinct advantage 
over other people who fail to realize they are fighting an unwin-
nable battle. 
                   LETTER 95
     On the Usefulness of Basic Principles
                       A

You keep asking me to explain without postponement[1] a topic 
which I once remarked should be put off until the proper time, 
and to inform you by letter whether this department of philoso-
phy which the Greeks call paraenetic,[2] and we Romans call the 
“preceptorial,” is enough to give us perfect wisdom. Now I know 
that you will take it in good part if I refuse to do so. But I accept 
your request all the more willingly, and refuse to let the common 
saying lose its point:

     Don’t ask for what you’ll wish you hadn’t got.

  For sometimes we seek with effort that which we should decline 
if offered voluntarily. Call that fickleness or call it pettishness[3]—
we must punish the habit by ready compliance. There are many 
things that we would have men think that we wish, but that we 
really do not wish. A lecturer sometimes brings upon the platform 
a huge work of research, written in the tiniest hand and very 
closely folded; after reading off a large portion, he says: “I shall 
stop, if you wish;” and a shout arises: “Read on, read on!” from 
the lips of those who are anxious for the speaker to hold his peace 
then and there. We often want one thing and pray for another, 
not telling the truth even to the gods, while the gods either do 
not hearken, or else take pity on us.
40  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  But I shall without pity avenge myself and shall load a huge 
letter upon your shoulders; for your part, if you read it with reluc-
tance, you may say: “I brought this burden upon myself,” and may 
class yourself among those men whose too ambitious wives drive 
them frantic, or those whom riches harass, earned by extreme 
sweat of the brow, or those who are tortured with the titles which 
they have sought by every sort of device and toil, and all others 
who are responsible for their own misfortunes.
  But I must stop this preamble and approach the problem under 
consideration. Men say: “The happy life consists in upright con-
duct; precepts guide one to upright conduct; therefore precepts 
are sufficient for attaining the happy life.” But they do not always 
guide us to upright conduct; this occurs only when the will is 
receptive; and sometimes they are applied in vain, when wrong 
opinions obsess the soul.
  Furthermore, a man may act rightly without knowing that he is 
acting rightly. For nobody, except he be trained from the start and 
equipped with complete reason, can develop to perfect propor-
tions, understanding when he should do certain things, and to 
what extent, and in whose company, and how, and why. Without 
such training a man cannot strive with all his heart after that 
which is honourable, or even with steadiness or gladness, but will 
ever be looking back and wavering.
  It is also said: “If honourable conduct results from precepts, 
then precepts are amply sufficient for the happy life; but the first 
of these statements is true; therefore the second is true also.” We 
shall reply to these words that honourable conduct is, to be sure, 
brought about by precepts, but not by precepts alone.
  “Then,” comes the reply, “if the other arts are content with pre-
cepts, wisdom will also be content therewith; for wisdom itself is 
an art of living. And yet the pilot is made by precepts which tell 
him thus and so to turn the tiller, set his sails, make use of a fair 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 41

wind, tack, make the best of shifting and variable breezes—all in 
the proper manner. Other craftsmen also are drilled by precepts; 
hence precepts will be able to accomplish the same result in the 
case of our craftsman in the art of living.”
  Now all these arts are concerned with the tools of life, but not 
with life as a whole.[4] Hence there is much to clog these arts from 
without and to complicate them—such as hope, greed, fear. But 
that art[5] which professes to teach the art of life cannot be for-
bidden by any circumstance from exercising its functions; for it 
shakes off complications and pierces through obstacles. Would 
you like to know how unlike its status is to the other arts? In the 
case of the latter, it is more pardonable to err voluntarily rather 
than by accident; but in the case of wisdom the worst fault is to 
commit sin wilfully.
  I mean something like this: A scholar will blush for shame, 
not if he makes a grammatical blunder intentionally, but if he 
makes it unintentionally; if a physician does not recognize that 
his patient is failing, he is a much poorer practitioner than if he 
recognizes the fact and conceals his knowledge. But in this art of 
living a voluntary mistake is the more shameful.
  Furthermore, many arts, aye and the most liberal of them all, 
have their special doctrine, and not mere precepts of advice—the 
medical profession, for example. There are the different schools 
of Hippocrates, of Asclepiades, of Themison.[6]
  And besides, no art that concerns itself with theories can exist 
without its own doctrines; the Greeks call them dogmas, while 
we Romans may use the term “doctrines,” or “tenets,” or “adopted 
principles”[7]—such as you will find in geometry or astronomy. But 
philosophy is both theoretic and practical; it contemplates and at 
the same time acts. You are indeed mistaken if you think that phi-
losophy offers you nothing but worldly assistance; her aspirations 
are loftier than that. She cries: “I investigate the whole universe, 
42  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

nor am I content, keeping myself within a mortal dwelling, to give 
you favourable or unfavourable advice. Great matters invite and 
such as are set far above you. In the words of Lucretius:[8]

     To thee shall I reveal the ways of heaven

     And the gods, spreading before thine eyes
     The atoms—whence all things are brought to birth,
     Increased, and fostered by creative power,
     And eke their end when Nature casts them off.

  Philosophy, therefore, being theoretic, must have her doctrines. 
  And why? Because no man can duly perform right actions 
except one who has been entrusted with reason, which will enable 
him, in all cases, to fulfil all the categories of duty. These categories 
he cannot observe unless he receives precepts for every occasion, 
and not for the present alone. Precepts by themselves are weak 
and, so to speak, rootless if they be assigned to the parts and not 
to the whole. It is the doctrines which will strengthen and sup-
port us in peace and calm, which will include simultaneously the 
whole of life and the universe in its completeness. There is the 
same difference between philosophical doctrines and precepts 
as there is between elements and members;[9] the latter depend 
upon the former, while the former are the source both of the lat-
ter and of all things.
  People say: “The old-style wisdom advised only what one 
should do and avoid;[10] and yet the men of former days were bet-
ter men by far. When savants have appeared, sages have become 
rare. For that frank, simple virtue has changed into hidden and 
crafty knowledge; we are taught how to debate, not how to live.”
  Of course, as you say, the old-fashioned wisdom, especially in 
its beginnings, was crude; but so were the other arts, in which 
dexterity developed with progress. Nor indeed in those days was 
there yet any need for carefully-planned cures. Wickedness had 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 43

not yet reached such a high point, or scattered itself so broadcast. 
Plain vices could be treated by plain cures; now, however, we need 
defences erected with all the greater care, because of the stronger 
powers by which we are attacked.
  Medicine once consisted of the knowledge of a few simples, 
to stop the flow of blood, or to heal wounds; then by degrees it 
reached its present stage of complicated variety. No wonder that 
in early days medicine had less to do! Men’s bodies were still 
sound and strong; their food was light and not spoiled by art and 
luxury, whereas when they began to seek dishes not for the sake 
of removing, but of rousing, the appetite, and devised countless 
sauces to whet their gluttony—then what before was nourishment 
to a hungry man became a burden to the full stomach.
  Thence come paleness, and a trembling of wine-sodden mus-
cles, and a repulsive thinness, due rather to indigestion than to 
hunger. Thence weak tottering steps, and a reeling gait just like 
that of drunkenness. Thence dropsy, spreading under the entire 
skin, and the belly growing to a paunch through an ill habit of 
taking more than it can hold. Thence yellow jaundice, discoloured 
countenances, and bodies that rot inwardly, and fingers that grow 
knotty when the joints stiffen, and muscles that are numbed and 
without power of feeling, and palpitation of the heart with its 
ceaseless pounding.
  Why need I mention dizziness? Or speak of pain in the eye and 
in the ear, itching and aching[11] in the fevered brain, and inter-
nal ulcers throughout the digestive system? Besides these, there 
are countless kinds of fever, some acute in their malignity, oth-
ers creeping upon us with subtle damage, and still others which 
approach us with chills and severe ague.
  Why should I mention the other innumerable diseases, the 
tortures that result from high living?
44  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  Men used to be free from such ills, because they had not yet 
slackened their strength by indulgence, because they had control 
over themselves, and supplied their own needs.[12] They toughened 
their bodies by work and real toil, tiring themselves out by run-
ning or hunting or tilling the earth. They were refreshed by food 
in which only a hungry man could take pleasure. Hence, there was 
no need for all our mighty medical paraphernalia, for so many 
instruments and pill-boxes. For plain reasons they enjoyed plain 
health; it took elaborate courses to produce elaborate diseases.
  Mark the number of things—all to pass down a single throat—
that luxury mixes together, after ravaging land and sea. So many 
different dishes must surely disagree; they are bolted with dif-
ficulty and are digested with difficulty, each jostling against the 
other. And no wonder, that diseases which result from ill-assorted 
food are variable and manifold; there must be an overflow when 
so many unnatural combinations are jumbled together. Hence 
there are as many ways of being ill as there are of living.
  The illustrious founder of the guild and profession of medi-
cine[13] remarked that women never lost their hair or suffered from 
pain in the feet; and yet nowadays they run short of hair and are 
afflicted with gout. This does not mean that woman’s physique 
has changed, but that it has been conquered; in rivalling male 
indulgences they have also rivalled the ills to which men are heirs.
  They keep just as late hours, and drink just as much liquor; they 
challenge men in wrestling and carousing; they are no less given 
to vomiting from distended stomachs and to thus discharging all 
their wine again; nor are they behind the men in gnawing ice, as 
a relief to their fevered digestions. And they even match the men 
in their passions, although they were created to feel love passively 
(may the gods and goddesses confound them!). They devise the 
most impossible varieties of unchastity, and in the company of 
men they play the part of men. What wonder, then, that we can 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 45

trip up the statement of the greatest and most skilled physician, 
when so many women are gouty and bald! Because of their vices, 
women have ceased to deserve the privileges of their sex; they 
have put off their womanly nature and are therefore condemned 
to suffer the diseases of men.
  Physicians of old time knew nothing about prescribing frequent 
nourishment and propping the feeble pulse with wine; they did 
not understand the practice of blood-letting and of easing chronic 
complaints with sweat-baths; they did not understand how, by 
bandaging ankles and arms, to recall to the outward parts the 
hidden strength which had taken refuge in the centre. They were 
not compelled to seek many varieties of relief, because the variet-
ies of suffering were very few in number.
  Nowadays, however, to what a stage have the evils of ill-health 
advanced! This is the interest which we pay on pleasures which 
we have coveted beyond what is reasonable and right. You need 
not wonder that diseases are beyond counting: count the cooks! 
All intellectual interests are in abeyance; those who follow culture 
lecture to empty rooms, in out-of-the-way places. The halls of the 
professor and the philosopher are deserted; but what a crowd 
there is in the cafés! How many young fellows besiege the kitchens 
of their gluttonous friends!
   I shall not mention the troops of luckless boys who must put 
up with other shameful treatment after the banquet is over. I shall 
not mention the troops of catamites, rated according to nation 
and colour, who must all have the same smooth skin, and the 
same amount of youthful down on their cheeks, and the same 
way of dressing their hair, so that no boy with straight locks may 
get among the curly-heads. Nor shall I mention the medley of 
bakers, and the numbers of waiters who at a given signal scurry 
to carry in the courses. Ye gods! How many men are kept busy to 
humour a single belly!
46  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  What? Do you imagine that those mushrooms, the epicure’s 
poison, work no evil results in secret,[14] even though they have 
had no immediate effect? What? Do you suppose that your sum-
mer snow does not harden the tissue of the liver? What? Do you 
suppose that those oysters, a sluggish food fattened on slime, do 
not weigh one down with mud-begotten heaviness? What? Do 
you not think that the so-called “Sauce from the Provinces,”[15] 
the costly extract of poisonous fish, burns up the stomach with 
its salted putrefaction? What? Do you judge that the corrupted 
dishes which a man swallows almost burning from the kitchen 
fire, are quenched in the digestive system without doing harm? 
How repulsive, then, and how unhealthy are their belchings, and 
how disgusted men are with themselves when they breathe forth 
the fumes of yesterday’s debauch! You may be sure that their food 
is not being digested, but is rotting.
  I remember once hearing gossip about a notorious dish into 
which everything over which epicures love to dally had been 
heaped together by a cookshop that was fast rushing into bank-
ruptcy; there were two kinds of mussels, and oysters trimmed 
round at the line where they are edible, set off at intervals by 
sea-urchins; the whole was flanked by mullets cut up and served 
without the bones.
  In these days we are ashamed of separate foods; people mix 
many flavours into one. The dinner table does work which the 
stomach ought to do. I look forward next to food being served 
masticated! And how little we are from it already when we pick 
out shells and bones and the cook performs the office of the teeth!
  They say: “It is too much trouble to take our luxuries one by 
one; let us have everything served at the same time and blended 
into the same flavour. Why should I help myself to a single dish? 
Let us have many coming to the table at once; the dainties of vari-
ous courses should be combined and confounded.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 47

  Those who used to declare that this was done for display and 
notoriety should understand that it is not done for show, but that 
it is an oblation to our sense of duty! Let us have at one time, 
drenched in the same sauce, the dishes that are usually served 
separately. Let there be no difference: let oysters, sea-urchins, 
shell-fish, and mullets be mixed together and cooked in the same 
dish.” No vomited food could be jumbled up more helter-skelter.
  And as the food itself is complicated, so the resulting diseases 
are complex, unaccountable, manifold, variegated; medicine has 
begun to campaign against them in many ways and by many rules 
of treatment.
  Now I declare to you that the same statement applies to phi-
losophy. It was once more simple because men’s sins were on a 
smaller scale, and could be cured with but slight trouble; in the 
face, however, of all this moral topsy-turvy men must leave no 
remedy untried. And would that this pest might so at last be 
overcome!
  We are mad, not only individually, but nationally. We check 
manslaughter and isolated murders; but what of war and the 
much-vaunted crime of slaughtering whole peoples? There are 
no limits to our greed, none to our cruelty. And as long as such 
crimes are committed by stealth and by individuals, they are less 
harmful and less portentous; but cruelties are practiced in accor-
dance with acts of senate and popular assembly, and the public is 
bidden to do that which is forbidden to the individual.
  Deeds that would be punished by loss of life when commit-
ted in secret, are praised by us because uniformed generals have 
carried them out. Man, naturally the gentlest class of being, is 
not ashamed to revel in the blood of others, to wage war, and to 
entrust the waging of war to his sons, when even dumb beasts 
and wild beasts keep the peace with one another.
48  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  Against this overmastering and widespread madness philos-
ophy has become a matter of greater effort, and has taken on 
strength in proportion to the strength which is gained by the 
opposition forces.
  It used to be easy to scold men who were slaves to drink and 
who sought out more luxurious food; it did not require a mighty 
effort to bring the spirit back to the simplicity from which it had 
departed only slightly. But now

     One needs the rapid hand, the master-craft.[16]

  Men seek pleasure from every source. No vice remains within 
its limits; luxury is precipitated into greed. We are overwhelmed 
with forgetfulness of that which is honourable. Nothing that has 
an attractive value, is base. Man, an object of reverence in the eyes 
of man, is now slaughtered for jest and sport; and those whom it 
used to be unholy to train for the purpose of inflicting and endur-
ing wounds, are thrust forth exposed and defenceless; and it is a 
satisfying spectacle to see a man made a corpse.
  Amid this upset condition of morals, something stronger than 
usual is needed—something which will shake off these chronic 
ills; in order to root out a deep-seated belief in wrong ideas, con-
duct must be regulated by doctrines. It is only when we add pre-
cepts, consolation, and encouragement to these, that they can 
prevail; by themselves they are ineffective.
  If we would hold men firmly bound and tear them away from 
the ills which clutch them fast, they must learn what is evil and 
what is good. They must know that everything except virtue 
changes its name and becomes now good and now bad. Just as 
the soldier’s primary bond of union is his oath of allegiance and 
his love for the flag, and a horror of desertion, and just as, after 
this stage, other duties can easily be demanded of him, and trusts 
given to him when once the oath[17] has been administered; so it is 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 49

with those whom you would bring to the happy life: the first foun-
dations must be laid, and virtue worked into these men. Let them 
be held by a sort of superstitious worship of virtue; let them love 
her; let them desire to live with her, and refuse to live without her.
  “But what, then,” people say, “have not certain persons won 
their way to excellence without complicated training? Have they 
not made great progress by obeying bare precepts alone?”[18] Very 
true; but their temperaments were propitious, and they snatched 
salvation as it were by the way. For just as the immortal gods 
did not learn virtue having been born with virtue complete, and 
containing in their nature the essence of goodness—even so cer-
tain men are fitted with unusual qualities and reach without a 
long apprenticeship that which is ordinarily a matter of teaching, 
welcoming honourable things as soon as they hear them. Hence 
come the choice minds which seize quickly upon virtue, or else 
produce it from within themselves. But your dull, sluggish fel-
low, who is hampered by his evil habits, must have this soul-rust 
incessantly rubbed off.
  Now, as the former sort, who are inclined towards the good, can 
be raised to the heights more quickly: so the weaker spirits will be 
assisted and freed from their evil opinions if we entrust to them 
the accepted principles of philosophy; and you may understand 
how essential these principles are in the following way. Certain 
things sink into us, rendering us sluggish in some ways, and hasty 
in others. These two qualities, the one of recklessness and the 
other of sloth, cannot be respectively checked or roused unless we 
remove their causes, which are mistaken admiration and mistaken 
fear. As long as we are obsessed by such feelings, you may say to 
us: “You owe this duty to your father, this to your children, this 
to your friends, this to your guests”; but greed will always hold 
us back, no matter how we try. A man may know that he should 
fight for his country, but fear will dissuade him. A man may know 
50  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

that he should sweat forth his last drop of energy on behalf of his 
friends, but luxury will forbid. A man may know that keeping a 
mistress is the worst kind of insult to his wife, but lust will drive 
him in the opposite direction.
  It will therefore be of no avail to give precepts unless you first 
remove the conditions that are likely to stand in the way of pre-
cepts; it will do no more good than to place weapons by your side 
and bring yourself near the foe without having your hands free to 
use those weapons. The soul, in order to deal with the precepts 
which we offer, must first be set free.
  Suppose that a man is acting as he should; he cannot keep it up 
continuously or consistently, since he will not know the reason 
for so acting. Some of his conduct will result rightly because of 
luck or practice; but there will be in his hand no rule by which he 
may regulate his acts, and which he may trust to tell him whether 
that which he has done is right. One who is good through mere 
chance will not give promise of retaining such a character for ever.
  Furthermore, precepts will perhaps help you to do what should 
be done; but they will not help you to do it in the proper way; and 
if they do not help you to this end, they do not conduct you to 
virtue. I grant you that, if warned, a man will do what he should; 
but that is not enough, since the credit lies, not in the actual deed, 
but in the way it is done.
  What is more shameful than a costly meal which eats away the 
income even of a knight? Or what so worthy of the censor’s con-
demnation[19] as to be always indulging oneself and one’s “inner 
m an ,” [20] if I may speak as the gluttons do? And yet often has an 
inaugural dinner cost the most careful man a cool million! The 
very sum that is called disgraceful if spent on the appetite, is 
beyond reproach if spent for official purposes! For it is not luxury 
but an expenditure sanctioned by custom.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 51

  A mullet of monstrous size was presented to the Emperor 
Tiberius. They say it weighed four and one half pounds (and why 
should I not tickle the palates of certain epicures by mentioning 
its weight?). Tiberius ordered it to be sent to the fish-market and 
put up for sale, remarking: “I shall be taken entirely by surprise, 
my friends, if either Apicius[21] or P. Octavius[21] does not buy that 
mullet.” The guess came true beyond his expectation: the two 
men bid, and Octavius won, thereby acquiring a great reputation 
among his intimates because he had bought for five thousand ses-
terces a fish which the Emperor had sold, and which even Apicius 
did not succeed in buying. To pay such a price was disgraceful 
for Octavius, but not for the individual who purchased the fish 
in order to present it to Tiberius—though I should be inclined to 
blame the latter as well; but at any rate he admired a gift of which 
he thought Caesar worthy.
  When people sit by the bedsides of their sick friends, we hon-
our their motives.
  But when people do this for the purpose of attaining a legacy,[22] 
they are like vultures waiting for carrion. The same act may be 
either shameful or honourable: the purpose and the manner make 
all the difference. Now each of our acts will be honourable if we 
declare allegiance to honour and judge honour and its results to 
be the only good that can fall to man’s lot; for other things are 
only temporarily good.
  I think, then, that there should be deeply implanted a firm 
belief which will apply to life as a whole: this is what I call a “doc-
trine.” And as this belief is, so will be our acts and our thoughts. 
As our acts and our thoughts are, so will our lives be. It is not 
enough, when a man is arranging his existence as a whole, to give 
him advice about details.
  Marcus Brutus, in the book which he has entitled Concerning 
Duty,[23] gives many precepts to parents, children, and brothers; 
52  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

but no one will do his duty as he ought, unless he has some prin-
ciple to which he may refer his conduct. We must set before our 
eyes the goal of the Supreme Good, towards which we may strive, 
and to which all our acts and words may have reference—just as 
sailors must guide their course according to a certain star. 
  Life without ideals is erratic: as soon as an ideal is to be set 
up, doctrines begin to be necessary. I am sure you will admit 
that there is nothing more shameful than uncertain and waver-
ing conduct, than the habit of timorous retreat. This will be our 
experience in all cases unless we remove that which checks the 
spirit and clogs it, and keeps it from making an attempt and try-
ing with all its might.
  Precepts are commonly given as to how the gods should be 
worshipped. But let us forbid lamps to be lighted on the Sabbath, 
since the gods do not need light, neither do men take pleasure 
in soot. Let us forbid men to offer morning salutation and to 
throng the doors of temples; mortal ambitions are attracted by 
such ceremonies, but God is worshipped by those who truly know 
Him. Let us forbid bringing towels and flesh-scrapers to Jupiter, 
and proffering mirrors to Juno;[24] for God seeks no servants. Of 
course not; he himself does service to mankind, everywhere and 
to all he is at hand to help.
  Although a man hear what limit he should observe in sacrifice, 
and how far he should recoil from burdensome superstitions, he 
will never make sufficient progress until he has conceived a right 
idea of God—regarding Him as one who possesses all things, and 
allots all things, and bestows them without price.
  And what reason have the Gods for doing deeds of kindness? 
It is their nature. One who thinks that they are unwilling to do 
harm, is wrong; they cannot do harm. They cannot receive or 
inflict injury; for doing harm is in the same category as suffering 
harm. The universal nature, all-glorious and all-beautiful, has 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 53

rendered incapable of inflicting ill those whom it has removed 
from the danger of ill.
  The first way to worship the gods is to believe in the gods; the 
next to acknowledge their majesty, to acknowledge their good-
ness without which there is no majesty. Also, to know that they 
are supreme commanders in the universe, controlling all things 
by their power and acting as guardians of the human race, even 
though they are sometimes unmindful of the individual. They 
neither give nor have evil but they do chasten and restrain certain 
persons and impose penalties, and sometimes punish by bestow-
ing that which seems good outwardly. Would you win over the 
gods? Then be a good man. Whoever imitates them, is worship-
ping them sufficiently.
  Then comes the second problem—how to deal with men. What 
is our purpose? What precepts do we offer? Should we bid them 
refrain from bloodshed? What a little thing it is not to harm one 
whom you ought to help! It is indeed worthy of great praise, when 
man treats man with kindness! Shall we advise stretching forth 
the hand to the shipwrecked sailor, or pointing out the way to the 
wanderer, or sharing a crust with the starving? Yes, if I can only 
tell you first everything which ought to be afforded or withheld; 
meantime, I can lay down for mankind a rule, in short compass, 
for our duties in human relationships: all that you behold, that 
which comprises both god and man, is one—we are the parts of 
one great body. Nature produced us related to one another, since 
she created us from the same source and to the same end. She 
engendered in us mutual affection, and made us prone to friend-
ships. She established fairness and justice; according to her ruling, 
it is more wretched to commit than to suffer injury. Through her 
orders, let our hands be ready for all that needs to be helped.
  Let this verse be in your heart and on your lips:
54  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

     I am a man; and nothing in man’s lot

     Do I deem foreign to me.[25]

  Let us possess things in common; for birth is ours in common. 
Our relations with one another are like a stone arch, which would 
collapse if the stones did not mutually support each other, and 
which is upheld in this very way.
  Next, after considering gods and men, let us see how we should 
make use of things. It is useless for us to have mouthed out pre-
cepts, unless we begin by reflecting what opinion we ought to 
hold concerning everything—concerning poverty, riches, renown, 
disgrace, citizenship, exile. Let us banish rumour and set a value 
upon each thing, asking what it is and not what it is called.
  Now let us turn to a consideration of the virtues. Some per-
sons will advise us to rate prudence very high, to cherish bravery, 
and to cleave more closely, if possible, to justice than to all other 
qualities. But this will do us no good if we do not know what 
virtue is, whether it is simple or compound, whether it is one or 
more than one, whether its parts are separate or interwoven with 
one another; whether he who has one virtue possesses the other 
virtues also; and just what are the distinctions between them.
  The carpenter does not need to inquire about his art in the 
light of its origin or of its function, any more than a pantomime 
need inquire about the art of dancing; if these arts understand 
themselves, nothing is lacking, for they do not refer to life as a 
whole. But virtue means the knowledge of other things besides 
herself: if we would learn virtue we must learn all about virtue.
  Conduct will not be right unless the will to act is right; for this 
is the source of conduct. Nor, again, can the will be right without 
a right attitude of mind; for this is the source of the will. Further-
more, such an attitude of mind will not be found even in the best 
of men unless he has learned the laws of life as a whole and has 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 55

worked out a proper judgment about everything, and unless he 
has reduced facts to a standard of truth. Peace of mind is enjoyed 
only by those who have attained a fixed and unchanging standard 
of judgment; the rest of mankind continually ebb and flow in their 
decisions, floating in a condition where they alternately reject 
things and seek them.
  And what is the reason for this tossing to and fro? It is because 
nothing is clear to them, because they make use of a most unsure 
criterion—rumour. If you would always desire the same things,[26] 
you must desire the truth. But one cannot attain the truth without 
doctrines; for doctrines embrace the whole of life. Things good 
and evil, honourable and disgraceful, just and unjust, dutiful and 
undutiful, the virtues and their practice, the possession of com-
forts, worth and respect, health, strength, beauty, keenness of 
the senses—all these qualities call for one who is able to appraise 
them. One should be allowed to know at what value every object 
is to be rated on the list; for sometimes you are deceived and 
believe that certain things are worth more than their real value; 
in fact, so badly are you deceived that you will find you should 
value at a mere pennyworth those things which we men regard 
as worth most of all—for example, riches, influence, and power.
  You will never understand this unless you have investigated the 
actual standard by which such conditions are relatively rated. As 
leaves cannot flourish by their own efforts, but need a branch to 
which they may cling and from which they may draw sap, so your 
precepts, when taken alone, wither away; they must be grafted 
upon a school of philosophy.
  Moreover, those who do away with doctrines do not understand 
that these doctrines are proved by the very arguments through 
which they seem to disprove them. For what are these men say-
ing? They are saying that precepts are sufficient to develop life, 
and that the doctrines of wisdom (in other words, dogmas) are 
56  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

superfluous. And yet this very utterance of theirs is a doctrine just 
as if I should now remark that one must dispense with precepts on 
the ground that they are superfluous, that one must make use of 
doctrines, and that our studies should be directed solely towards 
this end; thus, by my very statement that precepts should not be 
taken seriously, I should be uttering a precept.
  There are certain matters in philosophy which need admoni-
tion; there are others which need proof, and a great deal of proof, 
too, because they are complicated and can scarcely be made clear 
with the greatest care and the greatest dialectic skill. If proofs are 
necessary, so are doctrines; for doctrines deduce the truth by 
reasoning. Some matters are clear, and others are vague: those 
which the senses and the memory can embrace are clear; those 
which are outside their scope are vague.
  But reason is not satisfied by obvious facts; its higher and 
nobler function is to deal with hidden things. Hidden things need 
proof; proof cannot come without doctrines; therefore, doctrines 
are necessary.
  That which leads to a general agreement, and likewise to a per-
fect one,[27] is an assured belief in certain facts; but if, lacking this 
assurance, all things are adrift in our minds, then doctrines are 
indispensable; for they give to our minds the means of unswerv-
ing decision.
  Furthermore, when we advise a man to regard his friends as 
highly as himself, to reflect that an enemy may become a friend,[28] 
to stimulate love in the friend, and to check hatred in the enemy, 
we add: “This is just and honourable.” Now the just and honour-
able element in our doctrines is embraced by reason; hence reason 
is necessary; for without it the doctrines cannot exist, either.
  But let us unite the two. For indeed branches are useless with-
out their roots, and the roots themselves are strengthened by the 
growths which they have produced. Everyone can understand 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 57

how useful the hands are; they obviously help us. But the heart, 
the source of the hands growth and power and motion, is hidden. 
And I can say the same thing about precepts: they are manifest, 
while the doctrines of wisdom are concealed. And as only the 
initiated[29] know the more hallowed portion of the rites, so in 
philosophy the hidden truths are revealed only to those who are 
members and have been admitted to the sacred rites. But precepts 
and other such matters are familiar even to the uninitiated.
  Posidonius holds that not only precept-giving (there is nothing 
to prevent my using this word), but even persuasion, consola-
tion, and encouragement, are necessary. To these he adds the 
investigation of causes (but I fail to see why I should not dare to 
call it aetiology, since the scholars who mount guard over the 
Latin language thus use the term as having the right to do so). 
He remarks that it will also be useful to illustrate each particular 
virtue; this science Posidonius calls ethology, while others call it 
characterization.[30] It gives the signs and marks which belong to 
each virtue and vice, so that by them distinction may be drawn 
between like things.
  Its function is the same as that of precept. For he who utters 
precepts says: “If you would have self-control, act thus and so!” He 
who illustrates, says “The man who acts thus and so, and refrains 
from certain other things, possesses self-control.” If you ask what 
the difference here is, I say that the one gives the precepts of 
virtue, the other its embodiment. These illustrations, or, to use a 
commercial term, these samples, have, I confess, a certain utility; 
just put them up for exhibition well recommended, and you will 
find men to copy them.
  Would you, for instance, deem it a useful thing to have evidence 
given you by which you may recognize a thoroughbred horse, and 
not be cheated in your purchase or waste your time over a low-
bred animal?[31] But how much more useful it is to know the marks 
58  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

of a surpassingly fine soul—marks which one may appropriate 
from another for oneself!

     Straightway the foal of the high-bred drove 
     nursed up in the pastures,

     Marches with spirited step, and treads with a 
     delicate motion;
     First on the dangerous pathway and into the 
     threatening river,
     Trusting himself to the unknown bridge, without fear 
     at its creakings,
     Neck thrown high in the air, and clear-cut head, 
     and a belly
     Spare, back rounded, and breast abounding in 
     courage and muscle.
     He, when the clashing of weapons is heard to resound 
     in the distance,
     Leaps from his place, and pricks up his ears, and all 
     in a tremble
     Pours forth the pent-up fire that lay close-shut 
     in his nostrils.[32]

  Vergil’s description, though referring to something else, might 
perfectly well be the portrayal of a brave man; at any rate, I myself 
should select no other simile for a hero. If I had to describe Cato, 
who was unterrified amid the din of civil war, who was first to 
attack the armies that were already making for the Alps, who 
plunged face-forward into the civil conflict, this is exactly the sort 
of expression and attitude which I should give him.
  Surely none could “march with more spirited step” than one 
who rose against Caesar and Pompey at the same time and, when 
some were supporting Caesar’s party and others that of Pom-
pey, issued a challenge to both leaders,[33] thus showing that the 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 59

republic also had some backers. For it is not enough to say of 
Cato “without fear at its creakings.” Of course he is not afraid! 
He does not quail before real and imminent noises; in the face of 
ten legions, Gallic auxiliaries, and a motley host of citizens and 
foreigners, he utters words fraught with freedom, encouraging 
the Republic not to fail in the struggle for freedom, but to try all 
hazards; he declares that it is more honourable to fall into servi-
tude than to fall in line with it.
  What force and energy are his! What confidence he displays 
amid the general panic! He knows that he is the only one whose 
standing is not in question, and that men do not ask whether 
Cato is free, but whether he is still among the free. Hence his 
contempt for danger and the sword. What a pleasure it is to say, 
in admiration of the unflinching steadiness of a hero who did not 
totter when the whole state was in ruins:

     A breast abounding in courage and muscle!

  It will be helpful not only to state what is the usual quality 
of good men, and to outline their figures and features, but also 
to relate and set forth what men there have been of this kind. 
We might picture that last and bravest wound of Cato’s, through 
which Freedom breathed her last; or the wise Laelius and his 
harmonious life with his friend Scipio; or the noble deeds of the 
Elder Cato at home and abroad; or the wooden couches of Tubero, 
spread at a public feast, goatskins instead of tapestry, and vessels 
of earthenware set out for the banquet before the very shrine of 
Jupiter! What else was this except consecrating poverty on the 
Capitol? Though I know no other deed of his for which to rank 
him with the Catos, is this one not enough? It was a censorship, 
not a banquet.[34]
  How lamentably do those who covet glory fail to understand 
what glory is, or in what way it should be sought! On that day the 
60    THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

Roman populace viewed the furniture of many men; it marvelled 
only at that of one! The gold and silver of all the others has been 
broken up and melted down times without number; but Tubero’s 
earthenware will endure throughout eternity. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Literally, to pay money on the spot or perform a task without delay.
  2. i.e., the department of “advice by precepts,” discussed in the preceding 
   letter from another angle. The Greek term is nearest to the Latin sub-
   division hortatio.
  3. i.e., the pertness of a home-bred slave (verna).
  4. The argument here is similar to Ep. lxxxviii. 20hae  . . . artes ad 
   instrumenta vitae plurimum conferunt, tamen ad virtutem non pertinent.
  5. i.e., philosophy.
  6. Hippocrates belonged to the “Clinical” School; Asclepiades and his pupil 
   Themison to the “Methodical.” See Index of Proper Names.
  7. “Axioms” and “postulates.”
  8. i. 54 ff.
  9. Whether elementa and membra mean “letters and clauses” or “matter and 
   forms of matter” is difficult to say.
10. i.e., before the advent of any theoretical philosophy.
11. verminatio , defined by Festus ascum  corpus quodam minuto motu quasi a 
   vermibus scindatur.
12. For this sort of Golden Age reminiscence see Ep. xc. 5 ff. and note.
13. Hippocrates.
14. Mushrooms, as in the case of the Emperor Claudius, were a frequent aid 
   to secret murder.
15. The finest variety ofgarum  was made from Spanish mackerel-roe.
16. Vergil, Aen. viii. 442.
17. Cf. Ep. xxxvii. 1 uri, vinciri, ferroque necari and note.
18. i.e., not reinforced by general dogmas.
19. The nota was the mark of disgrace which the censor registered when he 
   struck a man’s name off the list of senators or knights.
20. The genius was properly a man’s alter ego or “better self”: every man 
   had his genius. For the colloquial use compare the “indulge genio” of the 
   Roman poets.
21. See Index of Proper Names.
22. A frequent vice under the Empire, nicknamed captatio.
23. Περὶ καθήκοντος—a subject handled by Panaetius, and by Cicero (De 
   Officiis).
24. i.e., the significant features of athletics and adornment for men and 
   women respectively.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     61

25. Terence, Heautontimorumenos, 77.
26. Cf. Ep. xciv. 12 and note.
27. i.e., progressing from a φαντασία in general to a φαντασία καταληπτική.
28. Seneca characteristically ignores the unplesant half of the proverb: φιλεῖν 
   ὡς μισήσων καὶ μισεῖν ὡς φιλήσων.
29. e.g., in the mysteries of Eleusis, etc.
30. For these terms see Spengel, Rhet. Graec., passim. Quintilian i. 9. 3 says 
   ethologia personis continetur; and Cicero, De Orat. iii. 205, in a list of 
   figures with which the orator should be familiar, includescharacterismos , 
   or descriptio.
31. For the same figure, similarly applied, see Ep. lxxx. 9 and note.
32. Vergil, Georg. iii. 75 ff.
33. For example, Cato had from the first opposed any assumption of illegal 
   power—objecting to the consulship of Pompey and Crassus in 55 B.C., 
   and to the conduct of Caesar throughout. His disapproval of both 
   simultaneously is hinted in Plutarch’s Cato the Younger, liv. 4.
34. The Latin term can hardly be reproduced, though “he did not regale but 
   regulate” comes near it. Tubero’s act was that of a true censor morum.
                    LETTER 96
              On Facing Hardships
                        A

Spite of all do you still chafe and complain, not understanding 
that, in all the evils to which you refer, there is really only one—
the fact that you do chafe and complain? If you ask me, I think 
that for a man there is no misery unless there be something in 
the universe which he thinks miserable. I shall not endure myself 
on that day when I find anything unendurable.
  I am ill; but that is a part of my lot. My slaves have fallen sick, 
my income has gone off, my house is rickety, I have been assailed 
by losses, accidents, toil, and fear; this is a common thing. Nay, 
that was an understatement; it was an inevitable thing.
  Such affairs come by order, and not by accident. If you will 
believe me, it is my inmost emotions that I am just now disclos-
ing to you: when everything seems to go hard and uphill, I have 
trained myself not merely to obey God, but to agree with His 
decisions. I follow Him because my soul wills it, and not because 
I must.[1] Nothing will ever happen to me that I shall receive with 
ill humour or with a wry face. I shall pay up all my taxes willingly. 
Now all the things which cause us to groan or recoil, are part of 
the tax of life—things, my dear Lucilius, which you should never 
hope and never seek to escape.
  It was disease of the bladder that made you apprehensive; 
downcast letters came from you; you were continually getting 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 63

worse; I will touch the truth more closely, and say that you feared 
for your life. But come, did you not know, when you prayed for 
long life, that this was what you were praying for? A long life 
includes all these troubles, just as a long journey includes dust 
and mud and rain.
  “But,” you cry, “I wished to live, and at the same time to be 
immune from all ills.” Such a womanish cry does no credit to a 
man. Consider in what attitude you shall receive this prayer of 
mine (I offer it not only in a good, but in a noble spirit): “May 
gods and goddesses alike forbid that Fortune keep you in luxury!”
  Ask yourself voluntarily which you would choose if some god 
gave you the choice—a life in a café or life in a camp.
  And yet life, Lucilius, is really a battle. For this reason those 
who are tossed about at sea, who proceed uphill and downhill 
over toilsome crags and heights, who go on campaigns that bring 
the greatest danger, are heroes and front-rank fighters; but per-
sons who live in rotten luxury and ease while others toil, are mere 
turtle-doves safe only because men despise them. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Cf. the words ducunt colentem fata, nolentem trahunt of Ep. cvii. 11.

                   LETTER 97
         On the Degeneracy of the Age
                       A

You are mistaken, my dear Lucilius, if you think that luxury, 
neglect of good manners, and other vices of which each man 
accuses the age in which he lives, are especially characteristic 
of our own epoch; no, they are the vices of mankind and not 
of the times. No era in history has ever been free from blame. 
Moreover, if you once begin to take account of the irregularities 
belonging to any particular era, you will find—to man’s shame 
be it spoken—that sin never stalked abroad more openly than in 
Cato’s very presence.
  Would anyone believe that money changed hands in the trial 
when Clodius was defendant on the charge of secret adultery 
with Caesar’s wife, when he violated[1] the ritual of that sacrifice 
which is said to be offered on behalf of the people when all males 
are so rigorously removed outside the precinct, that even pictures 
of all male creatures are covered up? And yet, money was given 
to the jury, and, baser even than such a bargain, sexual crimes 
were demanded of married women and noble youths as a sort of 
additional contribution.[2]
  The charge involved less sin than the acquittal; for the defen-
dant on a charge of adultery parcelled out the adulteries, and was 

Artwork opposite by Nimit Malavia
66  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

not sure of his own safety until he had made the jury criminals 
like himself. All this was done at the trial in which Cato gave 
evidence, although that was his sole part therein.
  I shall quote Cicero’s actual words,[3] because the facts are so 
bad as to pass belief: “He made assignations, promises, pleas, 
and gifts. And more than this (merciful Heavens, what an aban-
doned state of affairs!) upon several of the jury, to round out their 
reward, he even bestowed the enjoyment of certain women and 
meetings with noble youths.”
  It is superfluous to be shocked at the bribe; the additions to the 
bribe were worse. “Will you have the wife of that prig, A.? Very 
good. Or of B., the millionaire? I will guarantee that you shall lie 
with her. If you fail to commit adultery, condemn Clodius. That 
beauty whom you desire shall visit you. I assure you a night in 
that woman’s company without delay; my promise shall be carried 
out faithfully within the legal time of postponement.” It means 
more to parcel out such crimes than to commit them; it means 
blackmailing dignified matrons.
  These jurymen in the Clodius trial had asked the Senate for a 
guard—a favour which would have been necessary only for a jury 
about to convict the accused; and their request had been granted. 
Hence the witty remark of Catulus after the defendant had been 
acquitted: “Why did you ask us for the guard? Were you afraid 
of having your money stolen from you?” And yet, amid jests like 
these he got off unpunished who before the trial was an adulterer, 
during the trial a pander, and who escaped conviction more vilely 
than he deserved it.
  Do you believe that anything could be more disgraceful than 
such moral standards—when lust could not keep its hands either 
from religious worship or from the courts of law, when, in the very 
inquiry which was held in special session by order of the Senate, 
more crime was committed than investigated? The question at 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 67

issue was whether one could be safe after committing adultery; 
it was shown that one could not be safe without committing 
adultery!
  All this bargaining took place in the presence of Pompey and 
Caesar, of Cicero and Cato—yes, that very Cato whose presence, 
it is said, caused the people to refrain from demanding the usual 
quips and cranks of naked actresses at the Floralia,[4]—if you can 
believe that men were stricter in their conduct at a festival than 
in a court-room! Such things will be done in the future, as they 
have been done in the past; and the licentiousness of cities will 
sometimes abate through discipline and fear, never of itself.
  Therefore, you need not believe that it is we who have yielded 
most to lust and least to law. For young men of today live far more 
simple lives than those of an epoch when a defendant would plead 
not guilty to an adultery charge before his judges, and his judges 
admit it before the defendant, when debauchery was practiced to 
secure a verdict, and when Clodius, befriended by the very vices 
of which he was guilty, played the procurer during the actual 
hearing of the case. Could one believe this? He to whom one 
adultery brought condemnation was acquitted because of many.
  All ages will produce men like Clodius, but not all ages men 
like Cato. We degenerate easily, because we lack neither guides 
nor associates in our wickedness, and the wickedness goes on of 
itself, even without guides or associates. The road to vice is not 
only downhill, but steep; and many men are rendered incorrigible 
by the fact that, while in all other crafts errors bring shame to 
good craftsmen and cause vexation to those who go astray, the 
errors of life are a positive source of pleasure.
  The pilot is not glad when his ship is thrown on her beam-ends; 
the physician is not glad when he buries his patient; the orator 
is not glad when the defendant loses a case through the fault of 
his advocate; but on the other hand every man enjoys his own 
68  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

crimes. A. delights in an intrigue—for it was the very difficulty 
which attracted him thereto. B. delights in forgery and theft, and 
is only displeased with his sin when his sin has failed to hit the 
mark. And all this is the result of perverted habits.
  Conversely, however, in order that you may know that there is 
an idea of good conduct present subconsciously in souls which 
have been led even into the most depraved ways, and that men 
are not ignorant of what evil is but indifferent—I say that all men 
hide their sins, and, even though the issue be successful, enjoy the 
results while concealing the sins themselves. A good conscience, 
however, wishes to come forth and be seen of men; wickedness 
fears the very shadows.
  Hence I hold Epicurus’s saying[5] to be most apt: “That the guilty 
may haply remain hidden is possible, that he should be sure of 
remaining hidden is not possible,” or, if you think that the mean-
ing can be made more clear in this way: “The reason that it is no 
advantage to wrong-doers to remain hidden is that even though 
they have the good fortune they have not the assurance of remain-
ing so.” This is what I mean: crimes can be well guarded; free from 
anxiety they cannot be.
  This view, I maintain, is not at variance with the principles of 
our school, if it be so explained. And why? Because the first and 
worst penalty of sin is to have committed sin; and crime, though 
Fortune deck it out with her favours, though she protect and take 
it in her charge, can never go unpunished; since the punishment 
of crime lies in the crime itself. But none the less do these second 
penalties press close upon the heels of the first—constant fear, 
constant terror, and distrust in one’s own security.
  Why, then, should I set wickedness free from such a punish-
ment? Why should I not always leave it trembling in the balance?
  Let us disagree with Epicurus on the one point, when he 
declares that there is no natural justice, and that crime should be 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 69

avoided because one cannot escape the fear which results there-
from; let us agree with him on the other—that bad deeds are 
lashed by the whip of conscience, and that conscience is tortured 
to the greatest degree because unending anxiety drives and whips 
it on, and it cannot rely upon the guarantors of its own peace of 
mind. For this, Epicurus, is the very proof that we are by nature 
reluctant to commit crime, because even in circumstances of 
safety there is no one who does not feel fear.
  Good luck frees many men from punishment, but no man from 
fear. And why should this be if it were not that we have engrained 
in us a loathing for that which Nature has condemned? Hence 
even men who hide their sins can never count upon remaining 
hidden; for their conscience convicts them and reveals them to 
themselves. But it is the property of guilt to be in fear. It had gone 
ill with us, owing to the many crimes which escape the vengeance 
of the law and the prescribed punishments, were it not that those 
grievous offences against nature must pay the penalty in ready 
money, and that in place of suffering the punishment comes fear. 
Farewell.

Footnotes
1. For the best account of this scandal see Plutarch, Caesar, ix. f.
2. From stilla “a drop.” The phrase is equivalent to our proverbial “last straw.”
3. Epp. ad Atticum, i. 16.
4. A plebeian festival, held April 28, in honour of Flora, an Italian divinity 
 connected with Ceres and Venus. For the story of Cato (55 B.C.) see Valer. 
 Max. ii. 10. 8.
5. Epic., Frag. 532 Usener.
                    LETTER 98
          On the Fickleness of Fortune
                        A

You need never believe that anyone who depends upon hap-
piness is happy! It is a fragile support—this delight in adventi-
tious things; the joy which entered from without will some day 
depart. But that joy which springs wholly from oneself is leal and 
sound; it increases and attends us to the last; while all other things 
which provoke the admiration of the crowd are but temporary 
Goods. You may reply: “What do you mean? Cannot such things 
serve both for utility and for delight?” Of course. But only if they 
depend on us, and not we on them.
  All things that Fortune looks upon become productive and 
pleasant, only if he who possesses them is in possession also of 
himself, and is not in the power of that which belongs to him.[1] 
For men make a mistake, my dear Lucilius, if they hold that any-
thing good, or evil either, is bestowed upon us by Fortune; it is 
simply the raw material of Goods and Ills that she gives to us—the 
sources of things which, in our keeping, will develop into good or 
ill. For the soul is more powerful than any sort of Fortune; by its 
own agency it guides its affairs in either direction, and of its own 
power it can produce a happy life, or a wretched one.
  A bad man makes everything bad—even things which had 
come with the appearance of what is best; but the upright and 
honest man corrects the wrongs of Fortune, and softens hardship 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 71

and bitterness because he knows how to endure them; he likewise 
accepts prosperity with appreciation and moderation, and stands 
up against trouble with steadiness and courage. Though a man be 
prudent, though he conduct all his interests with well-balanced 
judgment, though he attempt nothing beyond his strength, he 
will not attain the Good which is unalloyed and beyond the reach 
of threats, unless he is sure in dealing with that which is unsure.
  For whether you prefer to observe other men (and it is easier 
to make up one’s mind when judging the affairs of others), or 
whether you observe yourself, with all prejudice laid aside, you 
will perceive and acknowledge that there is no utility in all these 
desirable and beloved things, unless you equip yourself in opposi-
tion to the fickleness of chance and its consequences, and unless 
you repeat to yourself often and uncomplainingly, at every mis-
hap, the words: “Heaven decreed it otherwise!”[2]
  Nay rather, to adopt a phrase which is braver and nearer the 
truth—one on which you may more safely prop your spirit—say 
to yourself, whenever things turn out contrary to your expecta-
tion: “Heaven decreed better!”
  If you are thus poised, nothing will affect you and a man will be 
thus poised if he reflects on the possible ups and downs in human 
affairs before he feels their force, and if he comes to regard chil-
dren, or wife, or property, with the idea that he will not necessarily 
possess them always and that he will not be any more wretched 
just because he ceases to possess them.
  It is tragic for the soul to be apprehensive of the future and 
wretched in anticipation of wretchedness, consumed with an 
anxious desire that the objects which give pleasure may remain 
in its possession to the very end. For such a soul will never be 
at rest; in waiting for the future it will lose the present blessings 
which it might enjoy. And there is no difference between grief for 
something lost and the fear of losing it.
72  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  But I do not for this reason advise you to be indifferent. Rather 
do you turn aside from you whatever may cause fear. Be sure to 
foresee whatever can be foreseen by planning. Observe and avoid, 
long before it happens, anything that is likely to do you harm. To 
effect this your best assistance will be a spirit of confidence and 
a mind strongly resolved to endure all things. He who can bear 
Fortune, can also beware of Fortune. At any rate, there is no dash-
ing of billows when the sea is calm. And there is nothing more 
wretched or foolish than premature fear. What madness it is to 
anticipate one’s troubles!
  In fine, to express my thoughts in brief compass and portray 
to you those busybodies and self-tormentors—they are as uncon-
trolled in the midst of their troubles as they are before them. He 
suffers more than is necessary, who suffers before it is necessary; 
such men do not weigh the amount of their suffering, by reason 
of the same failing which prevents them from being ready for 
it; and with the same lack of restraint they fondly imagine that 
their luck will last for ever, and fondly imagine that their gains 
are bound to increase as well as merely continue. They forget 
this spring-board[3] on which mortal things are tossed, and they 
guarantee for themselves exclusively a steady continuance of the 
gifts of chance.
  For this very reason I regard as excellent the saying[4] of Metro-
dorus, in a letter of consolation to his sister on the loss of her son, 
a lad of great promise: “All the Good of mortals is mortal.” He 
is referring to those Goods towards which men rush in shoals. 
For the real Good does not perish; it is certain and lasting and it 
consists of wisdom and virtue; it is the only immortal thing that 
falls to mortal lot.
  But men are so wayward, and so forgetful of their goal and 
of the point toward which every day jostles them, that they are 
surprised at losing anything, although some day they are bound 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 73

to lose everything. Anything of which you are entitled the owner 
is in your possession but is not your own; for there is no strength 
in that which is weak, nor anything lasting and invincible in that 
which is frail. We must lose our lives as surely as we lose our 
property, and this, if we understand the truth, is itself a consola-
tion. Lose it with equanimity; for you must lose your life also.
  What resource do we find, then, in the face of these losses? 
Simply this—to keep in memory the things we have lost, and not 
to suffer the enjoyment which we have derived from them to pass 
away along with them. To have may be taken from us, to have 
had, never. A man is thankless in the highest degree if, after losing 
something, he feels no obligation for having received it. Chance 
robs us of the thing, but leaves us its use and its enjoyment—and 
we have lost this if we are so unfair as to regret.
  Just say to yourself: “Of all these experiences that seem so 
frightful, none is insuperable. Separate trials have been over-
come by many: fire by Mucius, crucifixion by Regulus, poison 
by Socrates, exile by Rutilius, and a sword-inflicted death by Cato; 
therefore, let us also overcome something.”
  Again, those objects which attract the crowd under the appear-
ance of beauty and happiness, have been scorned by many men 
and on many occasions. Fabricius when he was general refused 
riches,[5] and when he was censor branded them with disapproval. 
Tubero deemed poverty worthy both of himself and of the deity 
on the Capitol when, by the use of earthenware dishes at a public 
festival, he showed that man should be satisfied with that which 
the gods could still use.[6] The elder Sextius rejected the honours 
of office;[7] he was born with an obligation to take part in public 
affairs, and yet would not accept the broad stripe even when the 
deified Julius offered it to him. For he understood that what can 
be given can also be taken away.
74  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  Let us also, therefore, carry out some courageous act of our 
own accord; let us be included among the ideal types of history.
  Why have we been slack? Why do we lose heart? That which 
could be done, can be done, if only we purify our souls and follow 
Nature; for when one strays away from Nature one is compelled 
to crave, and fear, and be a slave to the things of chance. We may 
return to the true path; we may be restored to our proper state; 
let us therefore be so, in order that we may be able to endure pain, 
in whatever form it attacks our bodies, and say to Fortune: “You 
have to deal with a man; seek someone whom you can conquer!”
  By these words,[8] and words of a like kind, the malignity of the 
ulcer is quieted down; and I hope indeed that it can be reduced, 
and either cured or brought to a stop, and grow old along with the 
patient himself. I am, however, comfortable in my mind regarding 
him; what we are now discussing is our own loss—the taking-off 
of a most excellent old man. For he himself has lived a full life, 
and anything additional may be craved by him, not for his own 
sake, but for the sake of those who need his services.
  In continuing to live, he deals generously. Some other person 
might have put an end to these sufferings; but our friend consid-
ers it no less base to flee from death than to flee towards death. 
“But,” comes the answer, “if circumstances warrant, shall he not 
take his departure?” Of course, if he can no longer be of service 
to anyone, if all his business will be to deal with pain.
  This, my dear Lucilius, is what we mean by studying philosophy 
while applying it, by practicing it on truth—note what courage a 
prudent man possesses against death, or against pain, when the 
one approaches and the other weighs heavily. What ought to be 
done must be learned from one who does it.
  Up to now we have dealt with arguments—whether any man 
can resist pain, or whether the approach of death can cast down 
even great souls. Why discuss it further? Here is an immediate 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     75

fact for us to tackle—death does not make our friend braver to 
face pain, nor pain to face death. Rather does he trust himself in 
the face of both; he does not suffer with resignation because he 
hopes for death, nor does he die gladly because he is tired of suf-
fering. Pain he endures, death he awaits. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Compare the ἔχω ἀλλ᾽ οὐκ ἔχομαι of Aristippus, and the (equally 
  Epicurean) mihi res, non me rebus subiungere of Horace, Epp. i. 1. 19.
2. Vergil, Aen. ii. 428.
3. i.e., a sort of platform for mountebanks or acrobats—figuratively applied to 
  life’s Vanity Fair.
4. Frag. 35 Körte
5. i.e., when he declined the bribe of Pyrrhus, 280 B.C.
6. Cf. Ep. xcv. 72 f. omnibus saeculis Tuberonis fictilio durabunt.
7. Cf. Ep. lix. 7 and note b (vol. i.).
8. The testimony of an ancient grammarian, and the change of subject in the 
  text, may, as Hense states, indicate that a considerable passage is lost and 
  that another letter begins here. Cf. the senex egregius of § 15.
                    LETTER 99
        On Consolation to the Bereaved
                        A

I enclose a copy of the letter which I wrote to Marullus[1] at the 
time when he had lost his little son and was reported to be rather 
womanish in his grief—a letter in which I have not observed the 
usual form of condolence: for I did not believe that he should be 
handled gently, since in my opinion he deserved criticism rather 
than consolation. When a man is stricken and is finding it most 
difficult to endure a grievous wound, one must humour him for 
a while; let him satisfy his grief or at any rate work off the first 
shock; but those who have assumed an indulgence in grief should 
be rebuked forthwith, and should learn that there are certain fol-
lies even in tears.
  [2]”Is it solace that you look for? Let me give you a scolding 
instead! You are like a woman in the way you take your son’s 
death; what would you do if you had lost an intimate friend? A 
son, a little child of unknown promise, is dead; a fragment of 
time has been lost.
  We hunt out excuses for grief; we would even utter unfair com-
plaints about Fortune, as if Fortune would never give us just rea-
son for complaining! But I had really thought that you possessed 
spirit enough to deal with concrete troubles, to say nothing of the 
shadowy troubles over which men make moan through force of 
habit. Had you lost a friend (which is the greatest blow of all),[3] 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 77

you would have had to endeavour rather to rejoice because you 
had possessed him than to mourn because you had lost him.
  “But many men fail to count up how manifold their gains have 
been, how great their rejoicings. Grief like yours has this among 
other evils: it is not only useless, but thankless. Has it then all been 
for nothing that you have had such a friend? During so many 
years, amid such close associations, after such intimate commu-
nion of personal interests, has nothing been accomplished? Do 
you bury friendship along with a friend? And why lament having 
lost him, if it be of no avail to have possessed him? Believe me, 
a great part of those we have loved, though chance has removed 
their persons, still abides with us. The past is ours, and there is 
nothing more secure for us than that which has been.
  We are ungrateful for past gains, because we hope for the 
future, as if the future—if so be that any future is ours—will not 
be quickly blended with the past. People set a narrow limit to 
their enjoyments if they take pleasure only in the present; both the 
future and the past serve for our delight—the one with anticipa-
tion, and the other with memories but the one is contingent and 
may not come to pass, while the other must have been.
  “What madness it is, therefore, to lose our grip on that which 
is the surest thing of all? Let us rest content with the pleasures 
we have quaffed in past days, if only, while we quaffed them, the 
soul was not pierced like a sieve, only to lose again whatever it 
had received.
  There are countless cases of men who have without tears buried 
sons in the prime of manhood—men who have returned from the 
funeral pyre to the Senate chamber, or to any other official duties, 
and have straightway busied themselves with something else. And 
rightly; for in the first place it is idle to grieve if you get no help 
from grief. In the second place, it is unfair to complain about what 
has happened to one man but is in store for all. Again, it is foolish 
78  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

to lament one’s loss, when there is such a slight interval between 
the lost and the loser. Hence we should be more resigned in spirit, 
because we follow closely those whom we have lost.
  “Note the rapidity of Time—that swiftest of things; consider the 
shortness of the course along which we hasten at top speed; mark 
this throng of humanity all straining toward the same point with 
briefest intervals between them—even when they seem longest; 
he whom you count as passed away has simply posted on ahead.[4] 
And what is more irrational than to bewail your predecessor, 
when you yourself must travel on the same journey?
  Does a man bewail an event which he knew would take place? 
Or, if he did not think of death as man’s lot, he has but cheated 
himself. Does a man bewail an event which he has been admit-
ting to be unavoidable? Whoever complains about the death of 
anyone, is complaining that he was a man. Everyone is bound by 
the same terms: he who is privileged to be born, is destined to die.
  Periods of time separate us, but death levels us. The period 
which lies between our first day and our last is shifting and uncer-
tain: if you reckon it by its troubles, it is long even to a lad, if by 
its speed, it is scanty even to a greybeard. Everything is slippery, 
treacherous, and more shifting than any weather. All things are 
tossed about and shift into their opposites at the bidding of For-
tune; amid such a turmoil of mortal affairs nothing but death is 
surely in store for anyone. And yet all men complain about the 
one thing wherein none of them is deceived.
  ‘But he died in boyhood.’ I am not yet prepared to say that 
he who quickly comes to the end of his life has the better of the 
bargain; let us turn to consider the case of him who has grown to 
old age. How very little is he superior to the child![5] Place before 
your mind’s eye the vast spread of time’s abyss, and consider the 
universe; and then contrast our so-called human life with infinity: 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 79

you will then see how scant is that for which we pray, and which 
we seek to lengthen.
   How much of this time is taken up with weeping, how much 
with worry! How much with prayers for death before death 
arrives, how much with our health, how much with our fears! 
How much is occupied by our years of inexperience or of use-
less endeavour! And half of all this time is wasted in sleeping. 
Add, besides, our toils, our griefs, our dangers—and you will 
comprehend that even in the longest life real living is the least 
portion thereof.
  Nevertheless, who will make such an admission as: ‘A man 
is not better off who is allowed to return home quickly, whose 
journey is accomplished before he is wearied out’? Life is neither a 
Good nor an Evil; it is simply the place where good and evil exist. 
Hence this little boy has lost nothing except a hazard where loss 
was more assured than gain. He might have turned out temper-
ate and prudent; he might, with your fostering care, have been 
moulded to a better standard; but (and this fear is more reason-
able) he might have become just like the many.
  Note the youths of the noblest lineage whose extravagance has 
flung them into the arena;[6] note those men who cater to the pas-
sions of themselves and others in mutual lust, whose days never 
pass without drunkenness or some signal act of shame; it will 
thus be clear to you that there was more to fear than to hope for.
  “For this reason you ought not to invite excuses for grief or 
aggravate slight burdens by getting indignant.
  I am not exhorting you to make an effort and rise to great 
heights; for my opinion of you is not so low as to make me think 
that it is necessary for you to summon every bit of your virtue 
to face this trouble. Yours is not pain; it is a mere sting—and it is 
you yourself who are turning it into pain.
80  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  “Of a surety philosophy has done you much service if you can 
bear courageously the loss of a boy who was as yet better known 
to his nurse than to his father!
  And what, then? Now, at this time, am I advising you to be 
hard-hearted, desiring you to keep your countenance unmoved 
at the very funeral ceremony, and not allowing your soul even 
to feel the pinch of pain? By no means. That would mean lack 
of feeling rather than virtue—to behold the burial ceremonies 
of those near and dear to you with the same expression as you 
beheld their living forms, and to show no emotion over the first 
bereavement in your family. But suppose that I forbade you to 
show emotion; there are certain feelings which claim their own 
rights. Tears fall, no matter how we try to check them, and by 
being shed they ease the soul.
  What, then, shall we do? Let us allow them to fall, but let us 
not command them do so; let us according as emotion floods our 
eyes, but not as as mere imitation shall demand. Let us, indeed, 
add nothing to natural grief, nor augment it by following the 
example of others. The display of grief makes more demands than 
grief itself: how few men are sad in their own company! They 
lament the louder for being heard; persons who are reserved and 
silent when alone are stirred to new paroxysms of tears when they 
behold others near them! At such times they lay violent hands 
upon their own persons—though they might have done this 
more easily if no one were present to check them; at such times 
they pray for death; at such times they toss themselves from their 
couches. But their grief slackens with the departure of onlookers.
  In this matter, as in others also, we are obsessed by this fault—
conforming to the pattern of the many, and regarding convention 
rather than duty. We abandon nature and surrender to the mob—
who are never good advisers in anything, and in this respect as in 
all others are most inconsistent. People see a man who bears his 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 81

grief bravely: they call him undutiful and savage-hearted; they 
see a man who collapses and clings to his dead: they call him 
womanish and weak.
  Everything, therefore, should be referred to reason. But noth-
ing is more foolish than to court a reputation for sadness and to 
sanction tears; for I hold that with a wise man some tears fall by 
consent, others by their own force.
  “I shall explain the difference as follows: When the first news of 
some bitter loss has shocked us, when we embrace the form that 
will soon pass from our arms to the funeral flames—then tears 
are wrung from us by the necessity of Nature, and the life-force, 
smitten by the stroke of grief, shakes both the whole body, and 
the eyes also, from which it presses out and causes to flow the 
moisture that lies within.
  Tears like these fall by a forcing-out process, against our will; 
but different are the tears which we allow to escape when we 
muse in memory upon those whom we have lost. And there is in 
them a certain sweet sadness when we remember the sound of a 
pleasant voice, a genial conversation, and the busy duties of yore; 
at such a time the eyes are loosened, as it were, with joy. This sort 
of weeping we indulge; the former sort overcomes us.
  “There is, then, no reason why, just because a group of persons 
is standing in your presence or sitting at your side, you should 
either check or pour forth your tears; whether restrained or out-
poured, they are never so disgraceful as when feigned. Let them 
flow naturally. But it is possible for tears to flow from the eyes of 
those who are quiet and at peace. They often flow without impair-
ing the influence of the wise man—with such restraint that they 
show no want either of feeling or of self-respect.
  We may, I assure you, obey Nature and yet maintain our dignity. 
I have seen men worthy of reverence, during the burial of those 
near and dear, with countenances upon which love was written 
82  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

clear even after the whole apparatus of mourning was removed, 
and who showed no other conduct than that which was allowed to 
genuine emotion. There is a comeliness even in grief. This should 
be cultivated by the wise man; even in tears, just as in other mat-
ters also, there is a certain sufficiency; it is with the unwise that 
sorrows, like joys, gush over.
  “Accept in an unruffled spirit that which is inevitable. What can 
happen that is beyond belief? Or what that is new? How many 
men at this very moment are making arrangements for funer-
als! How many are purchasing grave-clothes![7] How many are 
mourning, when you yourself have finished mourning! As often 
as you reflect that your boy has ceased to be, reflect also upon 
man, who has no sure promise of anything, whom Fortune does 
not inevitably escort to the confines of old age, but lets him go at 
whatever point she sees fit.
  You may, however, speak often concerning the departed, and 
cherish his memory to the extent of your power. This memory 
will return to you all the more often if you welcome its coming 
without bitterness; for no man enjoys converse with one who is 
sorrowful, much less with sorrow itself. And whatever words, 
whatever jests of his, no matter how much of a child he was, may 
have given you pleasure to hear—these I would have you recall 
again and again; assure yourself confidently that he might have 
fulfilled the hopes which you, his father, had entertained.
  Indeed, to forget the beloved dead, to bury their memory along 
with their bodies, to bewail them bounteously and afterwards 
think of them but scantily—this is the mark of a soul below that 
of man. For that is the way in which birds and beasts love their 
young; their affection is quickly roused and almost reaches mad-
ness, but it cools away entirely when its object dies. This quality 
does not befit a man of sense; he should continue to remember, 
but should cease to mourn.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 83

  And in no wise do I approve of the remark of Metrodorus—that 
there is a certain pleasure akin to sadness, and that one should 
give chase thereto at such times as these. I am quoting the actual 
words of Metrodorus.[8]
  I have no doubt what your feelings will be in these matters; for 
what is baser than to ‘chase after’ pleasure in the very midst of 
mourning—nay rather by means of mourning—and even amid 
one’s tears to hunt out that which will give pleasure? These[9] are 
the men who accuse us[10] of too great strictness, slandering our 
precepts because of supposed harshness—because (say they) we 
declare that grief should either not be given place in the soul at 
all, or else should be driven out forthwith. But which is the more 
incredible or inhuman—to feel no grief at the loss of one’s friend, 
or to go a-hawking after pleasure in the midst of grief?
  That which we Stoics advise, is honourable; when emotion has 
prompted a moderate flow of tears, and has, so to speak, ceased to 
effervesce, the soul should not be surrendered to grief. But what 
do you mean, Metrodorus, by saying that with our very grief there 
should be a blending of pleasure? That is the sweetmeat method 
of pacifying children; that is the way we still the cries of infants, 
by pouring milk down their throats!
  “Even at the moment when your son’s body is on the pyre, or 
your friend breathing his last, will you not suffer your pleasure 
to cease, rather than tickle your very grief with pleasure? Which 
is the more honourable—to remove grief from your soul, or to 
admit pleasure even into the company of grief? Did I say ‘admit’? 
Nay, I mean ‘chase after,’ and from the hands, too, of grief itself.
  Metrodorus says: ‘There is a certain pleasure which is related 
to sadness.’ We Stoics may say that, but you may not. The only 
Good which you[11] recognize, is pleasure, and the only Evil, pain; 
and what relationship can there be between a Good and an Evil? 
But suppose that such a relationship does exist; now, of all times, 
84  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

is it to be rooted out?[12] Shall we examine grief also, and see with 
what elements of delight and pleasure it is surrounded?
  Certain remedies, which are beneficial for some parts of the 
body, cannot be applied to other parts because these are, in a way, 
revolting and unfit; and that which in certain cases would work to 
a good purpose without any loss to one’s self-respect, may become 
unseemly because of the situation of the wound. Are you not, 
similarly, ashamed to cure sorrow by pleasure? No, this sore spot 
must be treated in a more drastic way. This is what you should 
preferably advise: that no sensation of evil can reach one who is 
dead; for if it can reach him, he is not dead.
  And I say that nothing can hurt him who is as naught; for if 
a man can be hurt, he is alive. Do you think him to be badly off 
because he is no more, or because he still exists as somebody? 
And yet no torment can come to him from the fact that he is no 
more—for what feeling can belong to one who does not exist?—
nor from the fact that he exists; for he has escaped the greatest 
disadvantage that death has in it—namely, non-existence.
  “Let us say this also to him who mourns and misses the 
untimely dead: that all of us, whether young or old, live, in com-
parison with eternity, on the same level as regards our shortness 
of life. For out of all time there comes to us less than what any 
one could call least, since ‘least’ is at any rate some part; but this 
life of ours is next to nothing, and yet (fools that we are!), we 
marshal it in broad array!
  “These words I have written to you, not with the idea that you 
should expect a cure from me at such a late date—for it is clear 
to me that you have told yourself everything that you will read 
in my letter—but with the idea that I should rebuke you even for 
the slight delay during which you lapsed from your true self, and 
should encourage you for the future, to rouse your spirit against 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     85

Fortune and to be on the watch for all her missiles, not as if they 
might possibly come, but as if they were bound to come.” Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Possibly Iunius Marullus, consul designatus in A.D. 62 (Tac. Ann. xiv. 48).
  2. As Lipsius pointed out, the remainder of Seneca’s letter consists of the 
   quoted letter to Marullus.
  3. The Roman view differs from the modern view, just as this Letter is rather 
   more severe than Ep. lxiii. (on the death of Lucilius’s friend Flaccus).
  4. Almost identical language with the closing words of Ep. lxiii.: quem 
   putamus perisse, praemissus est.
  5. For a similar argument see Ep. xii. 6 f.
  6. i.e., who have had to turn gladiators.
  7. i.e., a shroud for the funeral couch, lectus vitalis.
  8. This passage, which Buecheler corrected in several places, is omitted in 
   the English, because Seneca has already translated it literally. M. was 
   addressing his sister.
  9. i.e., men like Metrodorus.
10. i.e., the Stoics.
11. i.e., the Epicureans.
12. i.e., grief should not be replaced by pleasure; otherwise grief will cease to 
   exist.
                   LETTER 100
          On the Writings of Fabianus
                        A

You write me that you have read with the greatest eagerness the 
work by Fabianus Papirius entitled The Duties of a Citizen, and 
that it did not come up to your expectations; then, forgetting 
that you are dealing with a philosopher, you proceed to criticize 
his style.
  Suppose, now, that your statement is true—that he pours forth 
rather than places his words; let me, however, tell you at the start 
that this trait of which you speak has a peculiar charm, and that it 
is a grace appropriate to a smoothly-gliding style. For, I maintain, 
it matters a great deal whether it tumbles forth, or flows along. 
Moreover, there is a deal of deference in this regard also—as I shall 
make clear to you: Fabianus seems to me to have not so much an 
“efflux” as a “flow” of words:[1] so copious is it, without confusion, 
and yet not without speed. This is indeed what his style declares 
and announces—that he has not spent a long time in working 
his matter over and twisting it into shape. But even supposing 
the facts are as you would have them; the man was building up 
character rather than words, and was writing those words for the 
mind rather than for the ear.
  Besides, had he been speaking them in his own person, you 
would not have had time to consider the details—the whole work 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 87

would have so swept you along. For as a rule that which pleases 
by its swiftness is of less value when taken in hand for reading.
  Nevertheless, this very quality, too, of attracting at first sight is 
a great advantage, no matter whether careful investigation may 
discover something to criticize.
  If you ask me, I should say that he who has forced approval is 
greater than he who has earned it; and yet I know that the latter 
is safer, I know that he can give more confident guarantees for 
the future. A meticulous manner of writing does not suit the 
philosopher; if he is timid as to words, when will he ever be brave 
and steadfast, when will he ever really show his worth?
  Fabianus’s style was not careless, it was assured. That is why you 
will find nothing shoddy in his work: his words are well chosen 
and yet not hunted for; they are not unnaturally inserted and 
inverted, according to the present-day fashion; but they possess 
distinction, even though they are taken from ordinary speech. 
There you have honourable and splendid ideas, not fettered into 
aphorisms, but spoken with greater freedom. We shall of course 
notice passages that are not sufficiently pruned, not constructed 
with sufficient care, and lacking the polish which is in vogue 
nowadays; but after regarding the whole, you will see that there 
are no futile subtleties of argument.
  There may, doubtless, be no variety of marbles, no water-sup-
ply[2] which flows from one apartment to another, no “pauper-
ro om s ,” [3] or any other device that luxury adds when ill content 
with simple charms; but, in the vulgar phrase, it is “a good house 
to live in.”
  Furthermore, opinions vary with regard to the style. Some wish 
it to be polished down from all roughness; and some take so 
great a pleasure in the abrupt manner that they would intention-
ally break up any passage which may by chance spread itself out 
88  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

more smoothly, scattering the closing words in such a way that 
the sentences may result unexpectedly.
  Read Cicero: his style has unity; it moves with a modulated 
pace, and is gentle without being degenerate. The style of Asinius 
Pollio, on the other hand, is “bumpy,” jerky, leaving off when you 
least expect it.[4] And finally, Cicero always stops gradually; while 
Pollio breaks off, except in the very few cases where he cleaves to 
a definite rhythm and a single pattern.
  In addition to this, you say that everything in Fabianus seems 
to you commonplace and lacking in elevation; but I myself hold 
that he is free from such a fault. For that style of his is not com-
monplace, but simply calm and adjusted to his peaceful and well-
ordered mind—not on a low level but on an even plane. There 
is lacking the verve and spur of the orator (for which you are 
looking), and a sudden shock of epigrams.[5] But look, please, at 
the whole work, how well-ordered it is: there is a distinction in 
it. His style does not possess, but will suggest, dignity.
  Mention someone whom you may rank ahead of Fabianus. 
Cicero, let us say, whose books on philosophy are almost as 
numerous as those of Fabianus. I will concede this point; but it is 
no slight thing to be less than the greatest. Or Asinius Pollio, let 
us say. I will yield again, and content myself by replying: “It is a 
distinction to be third in so great a field.” You may also include 
Livy; for Livy wrote both dialogues (which should be ranked as 
history no less than as philosophy), and works which professedly 
deal with philosophy. I shall yield in the case of Livy also. But 
consider how many writers Fabianus outranks, if he is surpassed 
by three only—and those three the greatest masters of eloquence!
  But, it may be said, he does not offer everything: though his 
style is elevated, it is not strong; though it flows forth copiously, 
it lacks force and sweep; it is not translucent, but it is lucid. “One 
would fail,” you urge, “to find therein any rugged denunciation of 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 89

vice, any courageous words in the face of danger, any proud defi-
ance of Fortune, any scornful threats against self-seeking. I wish 
to see luxury rebuked, lust condemned, waywardness crushed out. 
Let him show us the keenness of oratory, the loftiness of tragedy, 
the subtlety of comedy.” You wish him to rely on that pettiest of 
things, phraseology; but he has sworn allegiance to the greatness 
of his subject and draws eloquence after him as a sort of shadow, 
but not of set purpose.
  Our author will doubtless not investigate every detail, nor sub-
ject it to analysis, nor inspect and emphasize each separate word. 
This I admit. Many phrases will fall short, or will fail to strike 
home, and at times the style will slip along indolently; but there 
will be plenty of light throughout the work; there will be long 
stretches which will not weary the reader. And, finally, he will 
offer this quality of making it clear to you that he meant what he 
wrote. You will understand that his aim was to have you know 
what pleased him, rather than that he should please you. All his 
work makes for progress and for sanity, without any search for 
applause.
  I do not doubt that his writings are of the kind I have described, 
although I am harking back to him rather than retaining a sure 
memory of him, and although the general tone of his writings 
remains in my mind, not from a careful and recent perusal, but 
in outline, as is natural after an acquaintance of long ago. But 
certainly, whenever I heard him lecture, such did his work seem to 
me—not solid but full, the kind which would inspire young men 
of promise and rouse their ambition to become like him, without 
making them hopeless of surpassing him; and this method of 
encouragement seems to me the most helpful of all. For it is dis-
heartening to inspire in a man the desire, and to take away from 
him the hope, of emulation. At any rate, his language was fluent, 
90    THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

and though one might not approve every detail, the general effect 
was noble. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., his style is like a river rather than a torrent.
2. Concisura : from concido, to “cut into sections,” “distribute” (of water-pipes).
3. Cf. Ep. xviii. 7, and Martial iii. 48:
      Pauperis extruxit cellam, sed vendidit Olus
      praedia; nunc cellam pauperis Olus habet.
   Rich men sometimes fitted up in their palaces an imitation “poor man’s 
   cabin” by way of contrast to their other rooms or as a gesture towards 
   simple living; Seneca uses the phrase figuratively for certain devices in 
   composition.
4. Quintilian x. 1. 113 says: multa in Asinio Pollione inventio, summa 
  diligentia, adeo ut quibusdam etiam nimia videatur; et consilii et animi satis; 
  a nitore et iucunditate Ciceronis ita longe abest, ut videri possit saeculo prior.
5. The wording here resembles strikingly that of the Elder Seneca,Controv . ii. 
  pr. 2 deerat illi (sc. Fabiano) oratorium robur et ille pugnatorius mucro.
                   LETTER 101
      On the Futility of Planning Ahead
                       A

Every day and every hour reveal to us what a nothing we are, and 
remind us with some fresh evidence that we have forgotten our 
weakness; then, as we plan for eternity, they compel us to look 
over our shoulders at Death.
  Do you ask me what this preamble means? It refers to Cornelius 
Senecio, a distinguished and capable Roman knight, whom you 
knew: from humble beginnings he had advanced himself to for-
tune, and the rest of the path already lay downhill before him. For 
it is easier to grow in dignity than to make a start; and money is 
very slow to come where there is poverty; until it can creep out of 
that, it goes halting. Senecio was already bordering upon wealth, 
helped in that direction by two very powerful assets—knowing 
how to make money and how to keep it also; either one of these 
gifts might have made him a rich man.
  Here was a person who lived most simply, careful of health 
and wealth alike. He had, as usual, called upon me early in the 
morning, and had then spent the whole day, even up to night-
fall, at the bedside of a friend who was seriously and hopelessly 
ill. After a comfortable dinner, he was suddenly seized with an 
acute attack of quinsy, and, with the breath clogged tightly in his 
swollen throat, barely lived until daybreak. So within a very few 
92  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

hours after the time when he had been performing all the duties 
of a sound and healthy man, he passed away.
  He who was venturing investments by land and sea, who had 
also entered public life and left no type of business untried, dur-
ing the very realization of financial success and during the very 
onrush of the money that flowed into his coffers, was snatched 
from the world!

     Graft now thy pears, Meliboeus, and set out thy vines 
     in their order![1]

  But how foolish it is to set out one’s life, when one is not even 
owner of the morrow! O what madness it is to plot out far-reach-
ing hopes! To say: “I will buy and build, loan and call in money, 
win titles of honour, and then, old and full of years, I will sur-
render myself to a life of ease.”
  Believe me when I say that everything is doubtful, even for 
those who are prosperous. No one has any right to draw for him-
self upon the future. The very thing that we grasp slips through 
our hands, and chance cuts into the actual hour which we are 
crowding so full. Time does indeed roll along by fixed law, but as 
in darkness; and what is it to me whether Nature’s course is sure, 
when my own is unsure?
  We plan distant voyages and long-postponed home-comings 
after roaming over foreign shores, we plan for military service 
and the slow rewards of hard campaigns, we canvass for gover-
norships[2] and the promotions of one office after another—and 
all the while death stands at our side; but since we never think of 
it except as it affects our neighbour, instances of mortality press 
upon us day by day, to remain in our minds only as long as they 
stir our wonder.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 93

  Yet what is more foolish than to wonder that something which 
may happen every day has happened on any one day? There is 
indeed a limit fixed for us, just where the remorseless law of Fate 
has fixed it; but none of us knows how near he is to this limit. 
Therefore, let us so order our minds as if we had come to the 
very end. Let us postpone nothing. Let us balance life’s account 
every day.
  The greatest flaw in life is that it is always imperfect, and that 
a certain part of it is postponed. One who daily puts the finish-
ing touches to his life is never in want of time. And yet, from 
this want arise fear and a craving for the future which eats away 
the mind. There is nothing more wretched than worry over the 
outcome of future events; as to the amount or the nature of that 
which remains, our troubled minds are set aflutter with unac-
countable fear.
  How, then, shall we avoid this vacillation? In one way only—if 
there be no reaching forward in our life, if it is withdrawn into 
itself. For he only is anxious about the future, to whom the pres-
ent is unprofitable. But when I have paid my soul its due, when a 
soundly-balanced mind knows that a day differs not a whit from 
eternity—whatever days or problems the future may bring—then 
the soul looks forth from lofty heights and laughs heartily to itself 
when it thinks upon the ceaseless succession of the ages. For what 
disturbance can result from the changes and the instability of 
Chance, if you are sure in the face of that which is unsure?
  Therefore, my dear Lucilius, begin at once to live, and count 
each separate day as a separate life. He who has thus prepared 
himself, he whose daily life has been a rounded whole, is easy in 
his mind; but those who live for hope alone find that the immedi-
ate future always slips from their grasp and that greed steals along 
in its place, and the fear of death, a curse which lays a curse upon 
everything else. Thence came that most debased of prayers, in 
94  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

which Maecenas[3] does not refuse to suffer weakness, deformity, 
and as a climax the pain of crucifixion provided only that he may 
prolong the breath of life amid these sufferings:[4]

     Fashion me with a palsied hand,

     Weak of foot, and a cripple;
     Build upon me a crook-backed hump;
     Shake my teeth till they rattle;
     All is well, if my life remains.
     Save, oh, save it, I pray you,
     Though I sit on the piercing cross!

  There he is, praying for that which, if it had befallen him, would 
be the most pitiable thing in the world! And seeking a postpone-
ment of suffering, as if he were asking for life! I should deem 
him most despicable had he wished to live up to the very time of 
crucifixion: “Nay,” he cries, “you may weaken my body if you will 
only leave the breath of life in my battered and ineffective carcass! 
Maim me if you will, but allow me, misshapen and deformed as 
I may be, just a little more time in the world! You may nail me 
up and set my seat upon the piercing cross!” Is it worth while to 
weigh down upon one’s own wound, and hang impaled upon a 
gibbet, that one may but postpone something which is the balm 
of troubles, the end of punishment? Is it worth all this to possess 
the breath of life only to give it up?
  What would you ask for Maecenas but the indulgence of 
Heaven? What does he mean by such womanish and indecent 
verse? What does he mean by making terms with panic fear? 
What does he mean by begging so vilely for life? He cannot ever 
have heard Vergil read the words:

     Tell me, is Death so wretched as that?[5]
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 95

  He asks for the climax of suffering, and—what is still harder 
to bear—prolongation and extension of suffering; and what does 
he gain thereby? Merely the boon of a longer existence. But what 
sort of life is a lingering death?
  Can anyone be found who would prefer wasting away in pain, 
dying limb by limb, or letting out his life drop by drop, rather than 
expiring once for all? Can any man be found willing to be fastened 
to the accursed tree,[6] long sickly, already deformed, swelling 
with ugly tumours on chest and shoulders, and draw the breath 
of life amid long-drawn-out agony? I think he would have many 
excuses for dying even before mounting the cross!
  Deny, now, if you can, that Nature is very generous in making 
death inevitable.
  Many men have been prepared to enter upon still more shame-
ful bargains: to betray friends in order to live longer themselves, 
or voluntarily to debase their children and so enjoy the light of day 
which is witness of all their sins. We must get rid of this craving 
for life, and learn that it makes no difference when your suffering 
comes, because at some time you are bound to suffer. The point 
is, not how long you live, but how nobly you live. And often this 
living nobly means that you cannot live long. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Vergil, Ecl. i. 74.
2. Perhaps a hint to Lucilius, who was at this time procurator in Sicily.
3. Frag. 1, p. 35 Lunderstedt.
4. Horace, his intimate friend, wrote Od. ii. 17 to cheer the despondent 
 Maecenas; and Pliny (N. H. vii. 54) mentions his fevers and his insomnia—
 perpetua febris. . . . Eidem triennio supremo nullo horae momento contigit 
 somnus.
5. Aeneid xii. 646
6. Infelix lignum (or arbor) is the cross.
                   LETTER 102
    On the Intimations of Our Immortality
                        A

Just as a man is annoying when he rouses a dreamer of pleasant 
dreams (for he is spoiling a pleasure which may be unreal but 
nevertheless has the appearance of reality), even so your letter has 
done me an injury. For it brought me back abruptly, absorbed as 
I was in agreeable meditation and ready to proceed still further 
if it had been permitted me.
  I was taking pleasure in investigating the immortality of souls, 
nay, in believing that doctrine. For I was lending a ready car to the 
opinions of the great authors, who not only approve but promise 
this most pleasing condition. I was giving myself over to such a 
noble hope; for I was already weary of myself, beginning already 
to despise the fragments of my shattered existence,[1] and feeling 
that I was destined to pass over into that infinity of time and the 
heritage of eternity, when I was suddenly awakened by the receipt 
of your letter, and lost my lovely dream. But, if I can once dispose 
of you, I shall reseek and rescue it.
  There was a remark, at the beginning of your letter, that I had 
not explained the whole problem wherein I was endeavouring to 
prove one of the beliefs of our school, that the renown which falls 
to one’s lot after death is a good; for I had not solved the problem 
with which we are usually confronted: “No good can consist of 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 97

things that are distinct and separate; yet renown consists of such 
things.”
  What you are asking about, my dear Lucilius, belongs to another 
topic of the same subject, and that is why I had postponed the 
arguments, not only on this one topic, but on other topics which 
also covered the same ground. For, as you know, certain logical 
questions are mingled with ethical ones. Accordingly, I handled 
the essential part of my subject which has to do with conduct—as 
to whether it is foolish and useless to be concerned with what lies 
beyond our last day, or whether our goods die with us and there 
is nothing left of him who is no more, or whether any profit can 
be attained or attempted beforehand out of that which, when it 
comes, we shall not be capable of feeling.
  All these things have a view to conduct, and therefore they 
have been inserted under the proper topic. But the remarks of 
dialecticians in opposition to this idea had to be sifted out, and 
were accordingly laid aside. Now that you demand an answer 
to them all, I shall examine all their statements, and then refute 
them singly.
  Unless, however, I make a preliminary remark, it will be impos-
sible to understand my rebuttals. And what is that preliminary 
remark? Simply this: there are certain continuous bodies, such as 
a man; there are certain composite bodies—as ships, houses, and 
everything which is the result of joining separate parts into one 
sum total: there are certain others made up of things that are dis-
tinct,[2] each member remaining separate—like an army, a popu-
lace, or a senate. For the persons who go to make up such bodies 
are united by virtue of law or function; but by their nature they 
are distinct and individual. Well, what further prefatory remarks 
do I still wish to make?
  Simply this: we believe that nothing is a good, if it be composed 
of things that are distinct. For a single good should be checked 
98  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

and controlled by a single soul; and the essential quality of each 
single good should be single. This can be proved of itself whenever 
you desire; in the meanwhile, however, it had to be laid aside, 
because our own weapons[3] are being hurled at us.
  Opponents speak thus: “You say, do you, that no good can be 
made up of things that are distinct? Yet this renown, of which you 
speak, is simply the favourable opinion of good men. For just as 
reputation does not consist of one person’s remarks, and as ill 
repute does not consist of one person’s disapproval, so renown 
does not mean that we have merely pleased one good person. In 
order to constitute renown, the agreement of many distinguished 
and praiseworthy men is necessary. But this results from the deci-
sion of a number—in other words, of persons who are distinct. 
Therefore, it is not a good.
  You say, again, that renown is the praise rendered to a good 
man by good men. Praise means speech: now speech is utterance 
with a particular meaning; and utterance, even from the lips of 
good men, is not a good in itself. For any act of a good man is not 
necessarily a good; he shouts his applause and hisses his disap-
proval, but one does not call the shouting or the hissing good—
although his entire conduct may be admired and praised—any 
more than one would applaud a sneeze or a cough. Therefore, 
renown is not a good.
  Finally, tell us whether the good belongs to him who praises, or 
to him who is praised: if you say that the good belongs to him who 
is praised, you are on as foolish a quest as if you were to maintain 
that my neighbour’s good health is my own. But to praise worthy 
men is an honourable action; thus the good is exclusively that of 
the man who does the praising, of the man who performs the 
action, and not of us, who are being praised. And yet this was the 
question under discussion.”
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 99

  I shall now answer the separate objections hurriedly. The first 
question still is, whether any good can consist of things that are 
distinct—and there are votes cast on both sides. Again, does 
renown need many votes? Renown can be satisfied with the deci-
sion of one good man: it is one good man who decides that we 
are good.
  Then the retort is: “What! Would you define reputation as the 
esteem of one individual, and ill-repute as the rancorous chatter 
of one man? Glory, too, we take to be more widespread, for it 
demands the agreement of many men.” But the position of the 
“many” is different from that of “the one.” And why? Because, 
if the good man thinks well of me, it practically amounts to my 
being thought well of by all good men; for they will all think the 
same, if they know me. Their judgment is alike and identical; the 
effect of truth on it is equal. They cannot disagree, which means 
that they would all hold the same view, being unable to hold dif-
ferent views.
  “One man’s opinion,” you say, “is not enough to create glory 
or reputation.” In the former case,[4] one judgment is a universal 
judgment, because all, if they were asked, would hold one opinion; 
in the other case, however, men of dissimilar character give diver-
gent judgments. You will find perplexing emotions—everything 
doubtful, inconstant, untrustworthy. And can you suppose that 
all men are able to hold one opinion? Even an individual does 
not hold to a single opinion. With the good man it is truth that 
causes belief, and truth has but one function and one likeness; 
while among the second class of which I spoke, the ideas with 
which they agree are unsound. Moreover, those who are false are 
never steadfast: they are irregular and discordant.
  “But praise,” says the objector, “is nothing but an utterance, 
and an utterance is not a good.” When they[5] say that renown is 
praise bestowed on the good by the good, what they refer to is 
100 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

not an utterance but a judgment. For a good man may remain 
silent; but if he decides that a certain person is worthy, of praise, 
that person is the object of praise.
  Besides, praise is one thing, and the giving of praise another; 
the latter demands utterance also. Hence no one speaks of “a 
funeral praise,” but says “praise-giving”—for its function depends 
upon speech. And when we say that a man is worthy of praise, we 
assure human kindness to him, not in words, but in judgment. 
So the good opinion, even of one who in silence feels inward 
approval of a good man, is praise.
  Again, as I have said, praise is a matter of the mind rather than 
of the speech; for speech brings out the praise that the mind has 
conceived, and publishes it forth to the attention of the many. To 
judge a man worthy of praise, is to praise him. And when our 
tragic poet[6] sings to us that it is wonderful “to be praised by a 
well-praised hero,” he means, “by one who is worthy of praise.” 
Again, when an equally venerable bard says:[7] “Praise nurtureth 
the arts,” he does not mean the giving of praise, for that spoils 
the arts. Nothing has corrupted oratory and all other studies that 
depend on hearing so much as popular approval.[8]
  Reputation necessarily demands words, but renown can be 
content with men’s judgments, and suffice without the spoken 
word. It is satisfied not only amid silent approval, but even in 
the face of open protest. There is, in my opinion, this difference 
between renown and glory—the latter depends upon the judg-
ments of the many; but renown on the judgments of good men.
  The retort comes: “But whose good is this renown, this praise 
rendered to a good man by good men? Is it of the one praised, 
or of the one who praises?” Of both, I say. It is my own good, in 
that I am praised, because I am naturally born to love all men, 
and I rejoice in having done good deeds and congratulate myself 
on having found men who express their ideas of my virtues with 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 101

gratitude; that they are grateful, is a good to the many, but it is a 
good to me also. For my spirit is so ordered that I can regard the 
good of other men as my own—in any case those of whose good 
I am myself the cause.
  This good is also the good of those who render the praise, for 
it is applied by means of virtue; and every act of virtue is a good. 
My friends could not have found this blessing if I had not been a 
man of the right stamp. It is therefore a good belonging to both 
sides—this being praised when one deserves it—just as truly as 
a good decision is the good of him who makes the decision and 
also of him in whose favour the decision was given. Do you doubt 
that justice is a blessing to its possessor, as well as to the man to 
whom the just due was paid? To praise the deserving is justice; 
therefore, the good belongs to both sides.
  This will be a sufficient answer to such dealers in subtleties. But 
it should not be our purpose to discuss things cleverly and to drag 
Philosophy down from her majesty to such petty quibbles. How 
much better it is to follow the open and direct road, rather than 
to map out for yourself a circuitous route which you must retrace 
with infinite trouble! For such argumentation is nothing else than 
the sport of men who are skilfully juggling with each other.
  Tell me rather how closely in accord with nature it is to let one’s 
mind reach out into the boundless universe! The human soul is a 
great and noble thing; it permits of no limits except those which 
can be shared even by the gods. First of all, it does not consent 
to a lowly birthplace, like Ephesus or Alexandria, or any land 
that is even more thickly populated than these, and more richly 
spread with dwellings. The soul’s homeland is the whole space 
that encircles the, height and breadth of the firmament, the whole 
rounded dome within which lie land and sea, within which the 
upper air that sunders the human from the divine also unites 
them, and where all the sentinel stars are taking their turn on duty.
102 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  Again, the soul will not put up with a narrow span of existence. 
“All the years,” says the soul, “are mine; no epoch is closed to great 
minds; all Time is open for the progress of thought. When the 
day comes to separate the heavenly from its earthly blend, I shall 
leave the body here where I found it, and shall of my own volition 
betake myself to the gods. I am not apart from them now, but am 
merely detained in a heavy and earthly prison.”
  These delays of mortal existence are a prelude to the longer 
and better life. As the mother’s womb holds us for ten months, 
making us ready, not for the womb itself, but for the existence 
into which we seem to be sent forth when at last we are fitted to 
draw breath and live in the open; just so, throughout the years 
extending between infancy and old age, we are making ourselves 
ready for another birth. A different beginning, a different condi-
tion, await us.
  We cannot yet, except at rare intervals, endure the light of 
heaven; therefore, look forward without fearing to that appointed 
hour,[9]—the last hour of the body but not of the soul. Survey 
everything that lies about you, as if it were luggage in a guest-
chamber: you must travel on. Nature strips you as bare at your 
departure as at your entrance.
  You may take away no more than you brought in; what is more, 
you must throw away the major portion of that which you brought 
with you into life: you will be stripped of the very skin which 
covers you—that which has been your last protection; you will 
be stripped of the flesh, and lose the blood which is suffuses and 
circulated through your body; you will be stripped of bones and 
sinews, the framework of these transitory and feeble parts.
  That day, which you fear as being the end of all things, is the 
birthday of your eternity. Lay aside your burden—why delay?—
just as if you had not previously left the body which was your 
hiding-place! You cling to your burden, you struggle; at your 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 103

birth also great effort was necessary on your mother’s part to set 
you free. You weep and wail; and yet this very weeping happens 
at birth also; but then it was to be excused—for you came into 
the world wholly ignorant and inexperienced. When you left the 
warm and cherishing protection of your mother’s womb, a freer 
air breathed into your face; then you winced at the touch of a 
rough hand, and you looked in amaze at unfamiliar objects, still 
delicate and ignorant of all things.
  But now it is no new thing for you to be sundered from that of 
which you have previously been a part; let go your already use-
less limbs with resignation and dispense with that body in which 
you have dwelt for so long. It will be torn asunder, buried out of 
sight, and wasted away. Why be downcast? This is what ordinarily 
happens: when we are born, the afterbirth always perishes. Why 
love such a thing as if it were your own possession? It was merely 
your covering. The day will come which will tear you forth and 
lead you away from the company of the foul and noisome womb.
  Withdraw from it now too[10] as much as you can, and withdraw 
from pleasure, except such as may be bound up with essential and 
important things; estrange yourself from it even now, and ponder 
on something nobler and loftier. Some day the secrets of nature 
shall be disclosed to you, the haze will be shaken from your eyes, 
and the bright light will stream in upon you from all sides.
  Picture to yourself how great is the glow when all the stars 
mingle their fires; no shadows will disturb the clear sky. The whole 
expanse of heaven will shine evenly; for day and night are inter-
changed only in the lowest atmosphere. Then you will say that 
you have lived in darkness, after you have seen, in your perfect 
state, the perfect light—that light which now you behold darkly 
with vision that is cramped to the last degree. And yet, far off as 
it is, you already look upon it in wonder; what do you think the 
heavenly light will be when you have seen it in its proper sphere?
104 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  Such thoughts permit nothing mean to settle in the soul, noth-
ing low, nothing cruel. They maintain that the gods are witnesses 
of everything. They order us to meet the gods’ approval, to pre-
pare ourselves to join them at some future time, and to plan for 
immortality. He that has grasped this idea shrinks from no attack-
ing army, is not terrified by the trumpet-blast, and is intimidated 
by no threats.
  How should it not be that a man feels no fear, if he looks for-
ward to death? He also who believes that the soul abides only as 
long as it is fettered in the body, scatters it abroad forthwith when 
dissolved, so that it may be useful even after death. For though 
he is taken from men’s sight, still

     Often our thoughts run back to the hero, 
     and often the glory

     Won by his race recurs to the mind.[11]

  Consider how much we are helped by good example; you will 
thus understand that the presence of a noble man is of no less 
service than his memory. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Seneca, worn out by his political experiences, was at this time not less 
  than sixty-seven years of age.
  2. Seneca is perhaps popularizing the Stoic combinations—παράθεσις 
  (juxtaposition), μῖξις (mixture) or κρᾶσις (fusion), and σύγχυσις 
  (chemical mixture). Cf. E. V. Arnold, Roman Stoicism, p. 169.
  3. i.e., the arguments of the Stoics.
  4. i.e., of the unus vir bonus, as contrasted with the many.
  5. i.e., the Stoics.
  6. Naevius, quoted by Cicero, Tusc. Disp. iv. 31 (of Hector):
      laetus sum
      laudari me abs te, pater, laudato viro.’
  7. A commonplace sentiment, found e.g., in Cicero, Tusc. Disp. i. 2. 4.
  8. Cf. Ep. xl. 4 haec popularis (oratio) nihil habet veri.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    105

  9. A metaphor from the arena: decretoria were real decisive weapons with 
   which death was faced, as opposed to lusoria, “sham” weapons. Cf. Sen. 
   Ep. cxvii. 25.
10. The departure from life is compared to the release from the womb. There 
   is also possibly a double meaning implied in the word venter .
11. Vergil, Aen. iv. 3 f.

                   LETTER 103
        On the Dangers of Association 
            With Our Fellow Men[1]
                       A

Why are you looking about for troubles which may perhaps 
come your way, but which may indeed not come your way at all? 
I mean fires, falling buildings, and other accidents of the sort that 
are mere events rather than plots against us. Rather beware and 
shun those troubles which dog our steps and reach out their hands 
against us. Accidents, though they may be serious, are few—such 
as being shipwrecked or thrown from one’s carriage; but it is from 
his fellow-man that a man’s everyday danger comes. Equip your-
self against that; watch that with an attentive eye. There is no evil 
more frequent, no evil more persistent, no evil more insinuating.
  Even the storm, before it gathers, gives a warning; houses crack 
before they crash; and smoke is the forerunner of fire. But dam-
age from man is instantaneous, and the nearer it comes the more 
carefully it is concealed.
  You are wrong to trust the countenances of those you meet. 
They have the aspect of men, but the souls of brutes; the difference 
is that only beasts damage you at the first encounter; those whom 
they have passed by they do not pursue. For nothing ever goads 


Artwork opposite by Roni Setiawan
108 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

them to do harm except when need compels them: it is hunger or 
fear that forces them into a fight. But man delights to ruin man.
  You must, however, reflect thus what danger you run at the 
hand of man, in order that you may deduce what is the duty of 
man. Try, in your dealings with others, to harm not, in order that 
you be not harmed. You should rejoice with all in their joys and 
sympathize with them in their troubles, remembering what you 
should offer and what you should withhold.
  And what may you attain by living such a life? Not necessar-
ily freedom from harm at their hands, but at least freedom from 
deceit. In so far, however, as you are able, take refuge with phi-
losophy: she will cherish you in her bosom, and in her sanctuary 
you shall be safe, or, at any rate, safer than before. People collide 
only when they are travelling the same path.
  But this very philosophy must never be vaunted by you; for 
philosophy when employed with insolence and arrogance has 
been perilous to many. Let her strip off your faults, rather than 
assist you to decry the faults of others. Let her not hold aloof from 
the customs of mankind, nor make it her business to condemn 
whatever she herself does not do. A man may be wise without 
parade and without arousing enmity. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Compare this with the Seventh letter (vol. i.).
                   LETTER 104
    On Care of Health and Peace of Mind
                       A

I have run off to my villa at Nomentum, for what purpose, do you 
suppose? To escape the city? No; to shake off a fever which was 
surely working its way into my system. It had already got a grip 
upon me. My physician kept insisting that when the circulation 
was upset and irregular, disturbing the natural poise, the disease 
was under way. I therefore ordered my carriage to be made ready 
at once, and insisted on departing in spite of my wife Paulina’s[1] 
efforts to stop me; for I remembered master Gallio’s[2] words, when 
he began to develop a fever in Achaia and took ship at once, insist-
ing that the disease was not of the body but of the place.
  That is what I remarked to my dear Paulina, who always urges 
me to take care of my health. I know that her very life-breath 
comes and goes with my own, and I am beginning, in my solici-
tude for her, to be solicitous for myself. And although old age 
has made me braver to bear many things, I am gradually losing 
this boon that old age bestows. For it comes into my mind that 
in this old man there is a youth also, and youth needs tenderness. 
Therefore, since I cannot prevail upon her to love me any more 
heroically, she prevails upon me to cherish myself more carefully.
  For one must indulge genuine emotions; sometimes, even in 
spite of weighty reasons, the breath of life must be called back and 
kept at our very lips even at the price of great suffering, for the 
110 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

sake of those whom we hold dear; because the good man should 
not live as long as it pleases him, but as long as he ought. He who 
does not value his wife, or his friend, highly enough to linger 
longer in life—he who obstinately persists in dying is a voluptuary.
  The soul should also enforce this command upon itself when-
ever the needs of one’s relatives require; it should pause and 
humour those near and dear, not only when it desires, but even 
when it has begun, to die.
  It gives proof of a great heart to return to life for the sake of oth-
ers; and noble men have often done this. But this procedure also, 
I believe, indicates the highest type of kindness: that although 
the greatest advantage of old age is the opportunity to be more 
negligent regarding self-preservation and to use life more adven-
turously, one should watch over one’s old age with still greater care 
if one knows that such action is pleasing, useful, or desirable in 
the eyes of a person whom one holds dear.
  This is also a source of no mean joy and profit; for what is 
sweeter than to be so valued by one’s wife that one becomes more 
valuable to oneself for this reason? Hence my dear Paulina is able 
to make me responsible, not only for her fears, but also for my 
own.
  So you are curious to know the outcome of this prescription 
of travel? As soon as I escaped from the oppressive atmosphere 
of the city, and from that awful odour of reeking kitchens which, 
when in use, pour forth a ruinous mess of steam and soot, I 
perceived at once that my health was mending. And how much 
stronger do you think I felt when I reached my vineyards! Being, 
so to speak, let out to pasture, I regularly walked into my meals! 
So I am my old self again, feeling now no wavering languor in 
my system, and no sluggishness in my brain. I am beginning to 
work with all my energy.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 111

  But the mere place avails little for this purpose, unless the mind 
is fully master of itself, and can, at its pleasure, find seclusion 
even in the midst of business; the man, however, who is always 
selecting resorts and hunting for leisure, will find something to 
distract his mind in every place. Socrates is reported to have 
replied, when a certain person complained of having received 
no benefit from his travels: “It serves you right! You travelled in 
your own company!”[3]
  O what a blessing it would be for some men to wander away 
from themselves! As it is, they cause themselves vexation, worry, 
demoralization, and fear! What profit is there in crossing the sea 
and in going from one city to another? If you would escape your 
troubles, you need not another place but another personality. Per-
haps you have reached Athens, or perhaps Rhodes; choose any 
state you fancy, how does it matter what its character may be? You 
will be bringing to it your own.
  Suppose that you hold wealth to be a good: poverty will then 
distress you, and—which is most pitiable—it will be an imaginary 
poverty. For you may be rich, and nevertheless, because your 
neighbour is richer, you suppose yourself to be poor exactly by 
the same amount in which you fall short of your neighbour. You 
may deem official position a good; you will be vexed at anoth-
er’s appointment or re-appointment to the consulship; you will 
be jealous whenever you see a name several times in the state 
records. Your ambition will be so frenzied that you will regard 
yourself last in the race if there is anyone in front of you.
  Or you may rate death as the worst of evils, although there is 
really no evil therein except that which precedes death’s com-
ing—fear. You will be frightened out of your wits, not only by real, 
but by fancied dangers, and will be tossed for ever on the sea of 
illusion. What benefit will it be to
112 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

     Have threaded all the towns of Argolis,

     A fugitive through midmost press of foes?[4]

  For peace itself will furnish further apprehension. Even in the 
midst of safety you will have no confidence if your mind has once 
been given a shock; once it has acquired the habit of blind panic, 
it is incapable of providing even for its own safety. For it does not 
avoid danger, but runs away. Yet we are more exposed to danger 
when we turn our backs.
  You may judge it the most grievous of ills to lose any of those 
you love; while all the same this would be no less foolish than 
weeping because the trees which charm your eye and adorn your 
home lose their foliage. Regard everything that pleases you as if 
it were a flourishing plant; make the most of it while it is in leaf, 
for different plants at different seasons must fall and die. But just 
as the loss of leaves is a light thing, because they are born afresh, 
so it is with the loss of those whom you love and regard as the 
delight of your life; for they can be replaced even though they 
cannot be born afresh.
  “New friends, however, will not be the same.” No, nor will you 
yourself remain the same; you change with every day and every 
hour. But in other men you more readily see what time plunders; 
in your own case the change is hidden, because it will not take 
place visibly. Others are snatched from sight; we ourselves are 
being stealthily filched away from ourselves. You will not think 
about any of these problems, nor will you apply remedies to these 
wounds. You will of your own volition be sowing a crop of trouble 
by alternate hoping and despairing. If you are wise, mingle these 
two elements: do not hope without despair, or despair without 
hope.
  What benefit has travel of itself ever been able to give anyone? 
No restraint upon pleasure, no bridling of desire, no checking 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 113

of bad temper, no crushing of the wild assaults of passion, no 
opportunity to rid the soul of evil. Travelling cannot give us judg-
ment, or shake off our errors; it merely holds our attention for 
a moment by a certain novelty, as children pause to wonder at 
something unfamiliar.
  Besides, it irritates us, through the wavering of a mind which is 
suffering from an acute attack of sickness; the very motion makes 
it more fitful and nervous. Hence the spots we had sought most 
eagerly we quit still more eagerly, like birds that flit and are off as 
soon as they have alighted.
  What travel will give is familiarity with other nations: it will 
reveal to you mountains of strange shape, or unfamiliar tracts 
of plain, or valleys that are watered by everflowing springs, or 
the characteristics of some river that comes to our attention. We 
observe how the Nile rises and swells in summer, or how the 
Tigris disappears, runs underground through hidden spaces, and 
then appears with unabated sweep; or how the Maeander,[5] that 
oft-rehearsed theme and plaything of the poets, turns in frequent 
bendings, and often in winding comes close to its own channel 
before resuming its course. But this sort of information will not 
make better or sounder men of us.[6]
  We ought rather to spend our time in study, and to cultivate 
those who are masters of wisdom, learning something which has 
been investigated, but not settled; by this means the mind can be 
relieved of a most wretched serfdom, and won over to freedom. 
Indeed, as long as you are ignorant of what you should avoid or 
seek, or of what is necessary or superfluous, or of what is right or 
wrong, you will not be travelling, but merely wandering.
  There will be no benefit to you in this hurrying to and fro; for 
you are travelling with your emotions and are followed by your 
afflictions. Would that they were indeed following you! In that 
case, they would be farther away; as it is, you are carrying and not 
114 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

leading them. Hence they press about you on all sides, continually 
chafing and annoying you. It is medicine, not scenery, for which 
the sick man must go a-searching.
  Suppose that someone has broken a leg or dislocated a joint: 
he does not take carriage or ship for other regions, but he calls in 
the physician to set the fractured limb, or to move it back to its 
proper place in the socket. What then? When the spirit is bro-
ken or wrenched in so many places, do you think that change of 
place can heal it? The complaint is too deep-seated to be cured 
by a journey.
  Travel does not make a physician or an orator; no art is acquired 
by merely living in a certain place.
  Where lies the truth, then? Can wisdom, the greatest of all the 
arts, be picked up on a journey? I assure you, travel as far as you 
like, you can never establish yourself beyond the reach of desire, 
beyond the reach of bad temper, or beyond the reach of fear; had 
it been so, the human race would long ago have banded together 
and made a pilgrimage to the spot. Such ills, as long as you carry 
with you their causes, will load you down and worry you to skin 
and bone in your wanderings over land and sea.
  Do you wonder that it is of no use to run away from them? 
That from which you are running, is within you. Accordingly, 
reform your own self, get the burden off your own shoulders, and 
keep within safe limits the cravings which ought to be removed. 
Wipe out from your soul all trace of sin. If you would enjoy your 
travels, make healthy the companion of your travels. As long as 
this companion is avaricious and mean, greed will stick to you; 
and while you consort with an overbearing man, your puffed-up 
ways will also stick close. Live with a hangman, and you will never 
be rid of your cruelty. If an adulterer be your club-mate, he will 
kindle the baser passions.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 115

  If you would be stripped of your faults leave far behind you 
the patterns of the faults. The miser, the swindler, the bully, the 
cheat, who will do you much harm merely by being near you, 
are within you.
  Change therefore to better associations: live with the Catos, 
with Laelius, with Tubero. Or, if you enjoy living with Greeks 
also, spend your time with Socrates and with Zeno: the former 
will show you how to die if it be necessary; the latter how to die 
before it is necessary.
   Live with Chrysippus, with Posidonius:[7] they will make you 
acquainted with things earthly and things heavenly; they will bid 
you work hard over something more than neat turns of language 
and phrases mouthed forth for the entertainment of listeners; they 
will bid you be stout of heart and rise superior to threats. The only 
harbour safe from the seething storms of this life is scorn of the 
future, a firm stand, a readiness to receive Fortune’s missiles full 
in the breast, neither skulking nor turning the back.
  Nature has brought us forth brave of spirit, and, as she has 
implanted in certain animals a spirit of ferocity, in others craft, 
in others terror, so she has gifted us with an aspiring and lofty 
spirit, which prompts us to seek a life of the greatest honour, and 
not of the greatest security, that most resembles the soul of the 
universe, which it follows and imitates as far as our mortal steps 
permit. This spirit thrusts itself forward, confident of commenda-
tion and esteem.
  It is superior to all, monarch of all it surveys; hence it should 
be subservient to nothing, finding no task too heavy, and nothing 
strong enough to weigh down the shoulders of a man.

     Shapes dread to look upon, of toil or death[8]

  are not in the least dreadful, if one is able to look upon them 
with unflinching gaze, and is able to pierce the shadows. Many a 
116 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

sight that is held a terror in the night-time, is turned to ridicule by 
day. “Shapes dread to look upon, of toil or death”: our Vergil has 
excellently said that these shapes are dread, not in reality, but only 
“to look upon”—in other words, they seem terrible, but are not.
  And in these visions what is there, I say, as fear-inspiring as 
rumour has proclaimed? Why, pray, my dear Lucilius, should a 
man fear toil, or a mortal death? Countless cases occur to my 
mind of men who think that what they themselves are unable to 
do is impossible, who maintain that we utter words which are too 
big for man’s nature to carry out.
  But how much more highly do I think of these men! They can 
do these things, but decline to do them. To whom that ever tried 
have these tasks proved false? To what man did they not seem 
easier in the doing? Our lack of confidence is not the result of 
difficulty. The difficulty comes from our lack of confidence.
  If, however, you desire a pattern, take Socrates, a long-suffering 
old man, who was sea-tossed amid every hardship and yet was 
unconquered both by poverty (which his troubles at home made 
more burdensome) and by toil, including the drudgery of mili-
tary service. He was much tried at home, whether we think of his 
wife, a woman of rough manners and shrewish tongue, or of the 
children whose intractability showed them to be more like their 
mother than their father.[9] And if you consider the facts, he lived 
either in time of war, or under tyrants, or under a democracy, 
which is more cruel than wars and tyrants.
  The war lasted for twenty-seven years;[10] then the state became 
the victim of the Thirty Tyrants, of whom many were his personal 
enemies. At the last came that climax of condemnation under 
the gravest of charges: they accused him of disturbing the state 
religion and corrupting the youth,[11] for they declared that he had 
influenced the youth to defy the gods, to defy the council, and 
to defy the state in general. Next came the prison, and the cup of 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 117

poison.[12] But all these measures changed the soul of Socrates so 
little that they did not even change his features. What wonder-
ful and rare distinction! He maintained this attitude up to the 
very end, and no man ever saw Socrates too much elated or too 
much depressed. Amid all the disturbance of Fortune, he was 
undisturbed.
  Do you desire another case? Take that of the younger Marcus 
Cato, with whom Fortune dealt in a more hostile and more per-
sistent fashion. But he withstood her, on all occasions, and in his 
last moments, at the point of death, showed that a brave man can 
live in spite of Fortune, can die in spite of her. His whole life was 
passed either in civil warfare, or under a political regime which 
was soon to breed civil war. And you may say that he, just as 
much as Socrates, declared allegiance to liberty in the midst of 
slavery—unless perchance you think that Pompey, Caesar, and 
Crassus[13] were the allies of liberty!
  No one ever saw Cato change, no matter how often the state 
changed: he kept himself the same in all circumstances—in the 
praetorship,[14] in defeat, under accusation,[15] in his province, on 
the platform, in the army, in death. Furthermore, when the repub-
lic was in a crisis of terror, when Caesar was on one side with ten 
embattled legions at his call, aided by so many foreign nations. 
and when Pompey was on the other, satisfied to stand alone 
against all comers, and when the citizens were leaning towards 
either Caesar or Pompey, Cato alone established a definite party 
for the Republic.
  If you would obtain a mental picture of that period, you may 
imagine on one side the people and the whole proletariat eager 
for revolution—on the other the senators and knights, the chosen 
and honoured men of the commonwealth; and there were left 
between them but these two—the Republic and Cato.
118 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

     I tell you, you will marvel when you see

     Atreus’ son, and Priam, and Achilles, wroth at both.[16]

  Like Achilles, he scorns and disarms each faction.
  And this is the vote which he casts concerning them both: “If 
Caesar wins, I slay myself; if Pompey, I go into exile.” What was 
there for a man to fear who, whether in defeat or in victory, had 
assigned to himself a doom which might have been assigned to 
him by his enemies in their utmost rage? So he died by his own 
decision.
  You see that man can endure toil: Cato, on foot, led an army 
through African deserts. You see that thirst can be endured: he 
marched over sun-baked hills, dragging the remains of a beaten 
army and with no train of supplies, undergoing lack of water and 
wearing a heavy suit of armour; always the last to drink of the few 
springs which they chanced to find. You see that honour, and dis-
honour too, can be despised: for they report that on the very day 
when Cato was defeated at the elections, he played a game of ball. 
You see also that man can be free from fear of those above him in 
rank: for Cato attacked Caesar and Pompey simultaneously, at a 
time when none dared fall foul of the one without endeavouring 
to oblige the other. You see that death can be scorned as well as 
exile: Cato inflicted exile upon himself and finally death,[17] and 
war all the while.
  And so, if only we are willing to withdraw our necks from the 
yoke, we can keep as stout a heart against such terrors as these. 
But first and foremost, we must reject pleasures; they render us 
weak and womanish; they make great demands upon us, and, 
moreover, cause us to make great demands upon Fortune. Second, 
we must spurn wealth: wealth is the diploma of slavery. Abandon 
gold and silver, and whatever else is a burden upon our richly-
furnished homes; liberty cannot be gained for nothing. If you set 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    119

a high value on liberty, you must set a low value on everything 
else. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Pompeia Paulina, the second wife of Seneca; cf. Tac. Ann. xv. 60. Though 
   much younger than her husband, she was a model of devotion, and 
   remained loyal to him through all the Neronian persecution.
  2. Elder brother of Seneca, whose name before his adoption by Lucius Iunius 
   Gallio was Annaeus Novatus. He was governor of Achaia from A.D. July 1, 
   51 to July 1, 52. See Acts xviii. 11 ff., and Duff, Three Dialogues of Seneca, 
   p. xliii.
  3. Cf. Ep. x. 1 “Mecum loquor.” “ Cave, rogo, et diligenter adtende; cum homine 
   malo loqueris.”
  4. Vergil, Aen. iii. 282 f.
  5. See Index of Proper Names.
  6. Although Seneca was deeply interested in such matters, as is proved by 
   Ep. lxxix., the Naturales Quaestiones, and an early work on the geography 
   of Egypt.
  7. These men are patterns or interpreters of the virtues. The first-named 
   three represent courage, justice, and self-restraint respectively. Socrates 
   is the ideal wise man, Zeno, Chrysippus, and Posidonus are in turn the 
   founder, the classifier, and the modernizer of Stoicism.
 8. Aeneid, vi. 277.
  9. At first a sculptor, then an independent seeker after truth, whose wants 
   were reduced to a minimum. Husband of the shrewish Xanthippe and 
   father of the dull and worthless Lamprocles. Brave soldier at Potidaea, 
   Delium, and Amphipolis.
10. 431-404 B.C. (the Peloponnesian War).
11. See Plato’s Apology, 23 D. They had previously aimed at him a law 
   forbidding the teaching of dialectic.
12. 399 B.C.
13. Triumvirs in 60 B.C. and rivals in acquiring unconstitutional power.
14. 54 B.C.
15. Perhaps a reference to his mission in Cyprus (58-56 B.C.), and his 
   subsequent arraignment by Clodius.
16. Vergil, Aen. i. 458.
17. At Utica, in 46 B.C.
                   LETTER 105
    On Facing the World With Confidence
                        A

I shall now tell you certain things to which you should pay atten-
tion in order to live more safely. Do you however—such is my 
judgment—hearken to my precepts just as if I were counselling 
you to keep safe your health in your country-place at Ardea.
  Reflect on the things which goad man into destroying man: 
you will find that they are hope, envy, hatred, fear, and contempt.
  Now, of all these, contempt is the least harmful, so much so 
that many have skulked behind it as a sort of cure. When a man 
despises you, he works you injury, to be sure, but he passes on; 
and no one persistently or of set purpose does hurt to a person 
whom he despises. Even in battle, prostrate soldiers are neglected: 
men fight with those who stand their ground.
  And you can avoid the envious hopes of the wicked so long as 
you have nothing which can stir the evil desires of others, and so 
long as you possess nothing remarkable. For people crave even 
little things, if these catch the attention or are of rare occurrence.
  You will escape envy if you do not force yourself upon the pub-
lic view, if you do not boast your possessions, if you understand 
how to enjoy things privately. Hatred comes either from running 
foul of others: and this can be avoided by never provoking anyone; 
or else it is uncalled for: and common-sense[1] will keep you safe 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 121

from it. Yet it has been dangerous to many; some people have 
been hated without having had an enemy.
  As to not being feared, a moderate fortune and an easy disposi-
tion will guarantee you that; men should know that you are the 
sort of person who can be offended without danger; and your 
reconciliation should be easy and sure. Moreover, it is as trouble-
some to be feared at home as abroad; it is as bad to be feared by a 
slave as by a gentleman. For every one has strength enough to do 
you some harm. Besides, he who is feared, fears also; no one has 
been able to arouse terror and live in peace of mind.
  Contempt remains to be discussed. He who has made this qual-
ity an adjunct of his own personality, who is despised because he 
wishes to be despised and not because he must be despised, has 
the measure of contempt under his control. Any inconveniences 
in this respect can be dispelled by honourable occupations and 
by friendships with men who have influence with an influential 
person; with these men it will profit you to engage but not to 
entangle yourself, lest the cure may cost you more than the risk.
  Nothing, however, will help you so much as keeping still—talk-
ing very little with others, and as much as may be with yourself. 
For there is a sort of charm about conversation, something very 
subtle and coaxing, which, like intoxication or love, draws secrets 
from us. No man will keep to himself what he hears. No one will 
tell another only as much as he has heard. And he who tells tales 
will tell names, too. Everyone has someone to whom he entrusts 
exactly what has been entrusted to him. Though he checks his 
own garrulity, and is content with one hearer, he will bring about 
him a nation, if that which was a secret shortly before becomes 
common talk.
  The most important contribution to peace of mind is never 
to do wrong. Those who lack self-control lead disturbed and 
tumultuous lives; their crimes are balanced by their fears, and 
122 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

they are never at ease. For they tremble after the deed, and they 
are embarrassed; their consciences do not allow them to busy 
themselves with other matters, and continually compel them to 
give an answer. Whoever expects punishment, receives it, but 
whoever deserves it, expects it.
  Where there is an evil conscience something may bring safety, 
but nothing can bring ease; for a man imagines that, even if he is 
not under arrest, he may soon be arrested. His sleep is troubled; 
when he speaks of another man’s crime, he reflects upon his own, 
which seems to him not sufficiently blotted out, not sufficiently 
hidden from view. A wrongdoer sometimes has the luck to escape 
notice but never the assurance thereof. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., tact.
                   LETTER 106
         On the Corporeality of Virtue
                       A

My tardiness in answering your letter was not due to press of 
business. Do not listen to that sort of excuse; I am at liberty, and 
so is anyone else who wishes to be at liberty. No man is at the 
mercy of affairs. He gets entangled in them of his own accord, and 
then flatters himself that being busy is a proof of happiness. Very 
well; you no doubt want to know why I did not answer the letter 
sooner? The matter about which you consulted me was being 
gathered into the fabric of my volume.[1]
  For you know that I am planning to cover the whole of moral 
philosophy and to settle all the problems which concern it. There-
fore I hesitated whether to make you wait until the proper time 
came for this subject, or to pronounce judgment out of the logical 
order; but it seemed more kindly not to keep waiting one who 
comes from such a distance.[2]
  So I propose both to pick this out of the proper sequence of 
correlated matter, and also to send you, without waiting to be 
asked, whatever has to do with questions of the same sort.
  Do you ask what these are? Questions regarding which knowl-
edge pleases rather than profits; for instance, your question 
whether the good is corporeal.[3]
  Now the good is active: for it is beneficial; and what is active is 
corporeal. The good stimulates the mind and, in a way, moulds 
124 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

and embraces that which is essential to the body. The goods of 
the body are bodily; so therefore must be the goods of the soul. 
For the soul, too, is corporeal.
  Ergo, man’s good must be corporeal, since man himself is cor-
poreal. I am sadly astray if the elements which support man and 
preserve or restore his health, are not bodily; therefore, his good 
is a body. You will have no doubt, I am sure, that emotions are 
bodily things (if I may be allowed to wedge in another subject not 
under immediate discussion), like wrath, love, sternness; unless 
you doubt whether they change our features, knot our foreheads, 
relax the countenance, spread blushes, or drive away the blood? 
What, then? Do you think that such evident marks of the body 
are stamped upon us by anything else than body?
  And if emotions are corporeal, so are the diseases of the spirit—
such as greed, cruelty, and all the faults which harden in our souls, 
to such an extent that they get into an incurable state. Therefore 
evil is also, and all its branches—spite, hatred, pride; and so also 
are goods, first because they are opposite poles of the bad, and 
second because they will manifest to you the same symptoms. 
Do you not see how a spirit of bravery makes the eye flash? How 
prudence tends toward concentration? How reverence produces 
moderation and tranquillity? How joy produces calm? How stern-
ness begets stiffness? How gentleness produces relaxation? These 
qualities are therefore bodily; for they change the tones and the 
shapes of substances, exercising their own power in their own 
kingdoms.
  Now all the virtues which I have mentioned are goods, and so 
are their results.
  Have you any doubt that whatever can touch is corporeal?

     Nothing but body can touch or be touched,
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 125

as Lucretius[4] says. Moreover, such changes as I have mentioned 
could not affect the body without touching it. Therefore, they 
are bodily.
  Furthermore, any object that has power to move, force, restrain, 
or control, is corporeal. Come now! Does not fear hold us back? 
Does not boldness drive us ahead? Bravery spur us on, and give 
us momentum? Restraint rein us in and call us back? Joy raise 
our spirits? Sadness cast us down?
  In short, any act on our part is performed at the bidding of 
wickedness or virtue. Only a body can control or forcefully affect 
another body. The good of the body is corporeal; a man’s good is 
related to his bodily good; therefore, it is bodily.
  Now that I have humoured your wishes, I shall anticipate your 
remark, when you say: “What a game of pawns!”[5] We dull our 
fine edge by such superfluous pursuits; these things make men 
clever, but not good.
  Wisdom is a plainer thing than that; nay, it is clearly better to 
use literature for the improvement of the mind, instead of wasting 
philosophy itself as we waste other efforts on superfluous things. 
Just as we suffer from excess in all things, so we suffer from excess 
in literature; thus we learn our lessons, not for life, but for the 
lecture-room. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Presumably (cf. Ep. cviii. § 1) into this collection of Epistles.
2. As Lucilius, in his letter, has come from far away.
3. This subject is discussed more fully in Ep. cxiii. For a clear account of the 
 whole question of “body” see Arnold, Roman Stoicism, pp. 157 ff.
4. De Rerum Nat. i. 304.
5. The Romans had aludus  latrunculorum, with features resembling both 
 draughts and chess. The pieces calculi( ) were perhaps of different values: 
 the latrunculus may have been a sort of “rover,” cf. Martial, Epig. vii. 72.
 THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS


   “The Canvas Strategy” by Ryan Holiday 
         Source: Tools of Titans / Ego is the Enemy 

“Great men have almost always shown themselves as ready to obey 
as they afterwards proved able to command.” —Lord Mahon

Background from Tim: If you want great mentors, you have to 
become a great mentee. If you want to lead, you have to first learn 
to follow. Ben Franklin, legendary NFL coach Bill Belichick, and 
many of the historical figures you think of as “leaders” followed 
a single strategy in their early days. I used the same strategy to 
build my network. It also explains how my first book,The  4-Hour 
Workweek, hit the tipping point, and it can be credited for my 
success in tech investing.
  Ryan Holiday (TW/FB/IG: @ryanholiday, ryanholiday.net) 
calls it the “canvas strategy,” and he’s a master practitioner him-
self. A strategist and writer, Ryan dropped out of college at 19 to 
apprentice under Robert Greene, author of The 48 Laws of Power, 
and became director of marketing for American Apparel at 21. His 
current company, Brass Check, has advised clients like Google, 
TASER, and Complex, as well as many best-selling authors. Holi-
day has written five books, most recently The Daily Stoic, Ego Is 
the Enemy and The Obstacle Is the Way, which has developed a 
cult following among NFL coaches, world-class athletes, political 
leaders, and others around the world. He lives on a small ranch 
outside Austin, Texas.
            THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | RYAN HOLIDAY 127

ENTER RYAN
In the Roman system of art and science, there existed a concept 
for which we have only a partial analog. Successful businessmen, 
politicians, or rich playboys would subsidize a number of writers, 
thinkers, artists, and performers. More than just being paid to 
produce works of art, these artists performed a number of tasks in 
exchange for protection, food, and gifts. One of the roles was that 
of an anteambulo—literally meaning “one who clears the path.” 
An anteambulo proceeded in front of his patron anywhere they 
traveled in Rome, making way, communicating messages, and 
generally making the patron’s life easier. The famous epigrammist 
Martial fulfilled this role for many years, serving for a time under 
the patron Mela, a wealthy businessman and brother of the Stoic 
philosopher and political advisor Seneca. Born without a rich 
family, Martial also served under another businessman named 
Petilius. As a young writer, he spent most of his day traveling from 
the home of one rich patron to another, providing services, pay-
ing his respects, and receiving small token payments and favors 
in return.
  Here’s the problem: Like most of us with our internships and 
entry-level positions (or later on, publishers or bosses or cli-
ents), Martial absolutely hated every minute of it. He seemed 
to believe that this system somehow made him a slave. Aspiring 
to live like some country squire—like the patrons he serviced—
Martial wanted money and an estate that was all his own. There, 
he dreamed, he could finally produce his works in peace and 
independence. As a result, his writing often drags with a hatred 
and bitterness about Rome’s upper crust, from which he believed 
he was cruelly shunted.
  For all his impotent rage, what Martial couldn’t see was that it 
was his unique position as an outsider to society that gave him 
such fascinating insight into Roman culture that it survives to 
128 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

this day. Instead of being pained by such a system, what if he’d 
been able to come to terms with it? What if—gasp—he could have 
appreciated the opportunities it offered? Nope. It seemed to eat 
him up inside instead.
  It’s a common attitude that transcends generations and soci-
eties. The angry, unappreciated genius is forced to do stuff she 
doesn’t like, for people she doesn’t respect, as she makes her way 
in the world. How dare they force me to grovel like this! The injus-
tice! The waste!
  We see it in recent lawsuits, in which interns sue their employ-
ers for pay. We see kids more willing to live at home with their 
parents than to submit to something they’re “overqualified” to 
work for. We see it in an inability to meet anyone else on their 
terms, an unwillingness to take a step back in order to potentially 
take several steps forward. I will not let them get one over on me. 
I’d rather we both have nothing instead.
  It’s worth taking a look at the supposed indignities of “serv-
ing” someone else. Because in reality, not only is the apprentice 
model responsible for some of the greatest art in the history of 
the world—everyone from Michelangelo to Leonardo da Vinci to 
Benjamin Franklin has been forced to navigate such a system—
but if you’re going to be the big deal you think you are going to 
be, isn’t this a rather trivial, temporary imposition?
  When someone gets his first job or joins a new organization, 
he’s often given this advice: Make other people look good and you 
will do well. Keep your head down, they say, and serve your boss. 
Naturally, this is not what the kid who was chosen over all the 
other kids for the position wants to hear. It’s not what a Harvard 
grad expects—after all, they got that degree precisely to avoid this 
supposed indignity.
  Let’s flip it around so it doesn’t seem so demeaning: It’s not 
about kissing ass. It’s not about making someone look good. It’s 
            THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | RYAN HOLIDAY 129

about providing the support so that others can be good. The better 
wording for the advice is this: Find canvases for other people to 
paint on. Be an anteambulo. Clear the path for the people above 
you and you will eventually create a path for yourself.
  When you are just starting out, we can be sure of a few fun-
damental realities: 1) You’re not nearly as good or as important 
as you think you are; 2) you have an attitude that needs to be 
readjusted; 3) most of what you think you know or most of what 
you learned in books or in school is out of date or wrong.
  There’s one fabulous way to work all of that out of your system: 
Attach yourself to people and organizations who are already suc-
cessful, subsume your identity into theirs, and move both forward 
simultaneously. It’s certainly more glamorous to pursue your own 
glory—though hardly as effective. Obeisance is the way forward.
  That’s the other effect of this attitude: It reduces your ego at a 
critical time in your career, letting you absorb everything you can 
without the obstructions that block others’ vision and progress.
  No one is endorsing sycophancy. Instead, it’s about seeing what 
goes on from the inside, and looking for opportunities for some-
one other than yourself. Remember that anteambulo means clear-
ing the path—finding the direction someone already intended to 
head and helping them pack, freeing them up to focus on their 
strengths. In fact, making things better rather than simply look-
ing as if you are.
  Many people know of Benjamin Franklin’s famous pseudony-
mous letters written under names like Silence Dogood. “What a 
clever young prodigy,” they think, and miss the most impressive 
part entirely: Franklin wrote those letters, submitted them by 
sliding them under the print-shop door, and received absolutely 
no credit for them until much later in his life. In fact, it was his 
brother, the print-shop owner, who profited from their immense 
popularity, regularly running them on the front page of his 
130 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

newspaper. Franklin was playing the long game, though—learn-
ing how public opinion worked, generating awareness of what he 
believed in, crafting his style and tone and wit. It was a strategy he 
used time and again over his career—once even publishing in his 
competitor’s paper in order to undermine a third competitor—for 
Franklin saw the constant benefit in making other people look 
good and letting them take credit for your ideas.
  Bill Belichick, the four-time Super Bowl–winning head coach 
of the New England Patriots, made his way up the ranks of the 
NFL by loving and mastering the one part of the job that coaches 
disliked at the time: analyzing film. His first job in professional 
football, for the Baltimore Colts, was one he volunteered to take 
without pay—and his insights, which provided ammunition and 
critical strategies for the game, were attributed exclusively to the 
more senior coaches. He thrived on what was considered grunt 
work, asked for it, and strove to become the best at precisely what 
others thought they were too good for. “He was like a sponge, 
taking it all in, listening to everything,” one coach said. “You gave 
him an assignment and he disappeared into a room and you didn’t 
see him again until it was done, and then he wanted to do more,” 
said another. As you can guess, Belichick started getting paid 
very soon.
  Before that, as a young high school player, he was so knowl-
edgeable about the game that he functioned as a sort of assistant 
coach even while playing the game. Belichick’s father, himself an 
assistant football coach for Navy, taught him a critical lesson in 
football politics: If he wanted to give his coach feedback or ques-
tion a decision, he needed to do it in private and self-effacingly 
so as not to offend his superior. He learned how to be a rising star 
without threatening or alienating anyone. In other words, he had 
mastered the canvas strategy.
            THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | RYAN HOLIDAY 131

  You can see how easily entitlement and a sense of superiority 
(the trappings of ego) would have made the accomplishments 
of either of these men impossible. Franklin would never have 
been published if he’d prioritized credit over creative expression—
indeed, when his brother found out, he literally beat him out of 
jealousy and anger. Belichick would have pissed off his coach and 
then probably been benched if he had one-upped him in public. 
He certainly wouldn’t have taken his first job for free, and he 
wouldn’t have sat through thousands of hours of film if he cared 
about status. Greatness comes from humble beginnings; it comes 
from grunt work. It means you’re the least important person in 
the room—until you change that with results.
  There is an old saying, “Say little, do much.” What we really 
ought to do is update and apply a version of that to our early 
approach. Be lesser, do more. Imagine if for every person you 
met, you thought of some way to help them, something you 
could do for them? And you looked at it in a way that entirely 
benefited them and not you? The cumulative effect this would 
have over time would be profound: You’d learn a great deal by 
solving diverse problems. You’d develop a reputation for being 
indispensable. You’d have countless new relationships. You’d have 
an enormous bank of favors to call upon down the road.
  That’s what the canvas strategy is about—helping yourself by 
helping others. Making a concerted effort to trade your short-
term gratification for a longer-term payoff. Whereas everyone else 
wants to get credit and be “respected,” you can forget credit. You 
can forget it so hard that you’re glad when others get it instead of 
you—that was your aim, after all. Let the others take their credit 
on credit, while you defer and earn interest on the principal.
  The strategy part of it is the hardest. It’s easy to be bitter, like 
Martial. To hate even the thought of subservience. To despise 
those who have more means, more experience, or more status 
132 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

than you. To tell yourself that every second not spent doing your 
work, or working on yourself, is a waste of your gift. To insist, I 
will not be demeaned like this.
  Once we fight this emotional and egotistical impulse, the can-
vas strategy is easy. The iterations are endless.

•  Maybe it’s coming up with ideas to hand over to your boss.

•  Find people, thinkers, up-and-comers to introduce to each 
  other. Cross wires to create new sparks.

•  Find what nobody else wants to do and do it.

•  Find inefficiencies and waste and redundancies. Identify 
  leaks and patches to free up resources for new areas.

•  Produce more than everyone else and give your ideas away.

  In other words, discover opportunities to promote their cre-
ativity, find outlets and people for collaboration, and eliminate 
distractions that hinder their progress and focus. It is a reward-
ing and infinitely scalable power strategy. Consider each one an 
investment in relationships and in your own development.
  The canvas strategy is there for you at any time. There is no 
expiration date on it either. It’s one of the few that age does not 
limit—on either side, young or old. You can start at any time—
before you have a job, before you’re hired and while you’re doing 
something else, or if you’re starting something new or find 
yourself inside an organization without strong allies or support. 
You may even find that there’s no reason to ever stop doing it, 
even once you’ve graduated to heading your own projects. Let it 
become natural and permanent; let others apply it to you while 
you’re too busy applying it to those above you.
            THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | RYAN HOLIDAY 133

  Because if you pick up this mantle once, you’ll see what most 
people’s egos prevent them from appreciating: The person who 
clears the path ultimately controls its direction, just as the canvas 
shapes the painting.
                   LETTER 107
      On Obedience to the Universal Will
                        A

Where is that common-sense of yours? Where that deftness in 
examining things? That greatness of soul? Have you come to be 
tormented by a trifle? Your slaves regarded your absorption in 
business as an opportunity for them to run away. Well, if your 
friends deceived you (for by all means let them have the name 
which we mistakenly bestowed upon them, and so call them, 
that they may incur more shame by not being such friends)—if 
your friends, I repeat, deceived you, all your affairs would lack 
something; as it is, you merely lack men who damaged your own 
endeavours and considered you burdensome to your neighbours.
  None of these things is unusual or unexpected. It is as nonsensi-
cal to be put out by such events as to complain of being spattered 
in the street or at getting befouled in the mud. The programme 
of life is the same as that of a bathing establishment, a crowd, or a 
journey: sometimes things will be thrown at you, and sometimes 
they will strike you by accident. Life is not a dainty business. You 
have started on a long journey; you are bound to slip, collide, fall, 
become weary, and cry out: “O for Death!”—or in other words, tell 
lies. At one stage you will leave a comrade behind you, at another 
you will bury someone, at another you will be apprehensive. It is 
amid stumblings of this sort that you must travel out this rugged 
journey.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 135

  Does one wish to die? Let the mind be prepared to meet every-
thing; let it know that it has reached the heights round which the 
thunder plays. Let it know that it has arrived where—

     Grief and avenging Care have set their couch,

     And pallid sickness dwells, and drear Old Age.[1]

  With such messmates must you spend your days. Avoid them 
you cannot, but despise them you can. And you will despise them, 
if you often take thought and anticipate the future.
  Everyone approaches courageously a danger which he has pre-
pared himself to meet long before, and withstands even hardships 
if he has previously practiced how to meet them. But, contrari-
wise, the unprepared are panic-stricken even at the most trifling 
things. We must see to it that nothing shall come upon us unfore-
seen. And since things are all the more serious when they are 
unfamiliar, continual reflection will give you the power, no matter 
what the evil may be, not to play the unschooled boy.
  “My slaves have run away from me!” Yes, other men have 
been robbed, blackmailed, slain, betrayed, stamped under foot, 
attacked by poison or by slander; no matter what trouble you 
mention, it has happened to many. Again, there are manifold 
kinds of missiles which are hurled at us. Some are planted in us, 
some are being brandished and at this very moment are on the 
way, some which were destined for other men graze us instead.
  We should not manifest surprise at any sort of condition into 
which we are born, and which should be lamented by no one, 
simply because it is equally ordained for all. Yes, I say, equally 
ordained; for a man might have experienced even that which 
he has escaped. And an equal law consists, not of that which all 
have experienced, but of that which is laid down for all. Be sure 
to prescribe for your mind this sense of equity; we should pay 
without complaint the tax of our mortality.
136 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  Winter brings on cold weather; and we must shiver. Summer 
returns, with its heat; and we must sweat. Unseasonable weather 
upsets the health; and we must fall ill. In certain places we may 
meet with wild beasts, or with men who are more destructive 
than any beasts. Floods, or fires, will cause us loss. And we can-
not change this order of things; but what we can do is to acquire 
stout hearts, worthy of good men, thereby courageously enduring 
chance and placing ourselves in harmony with Nature.
  And Nature moderates this world-kingdom which you see, by 
her changing seasons: clear weather follows cloudy; after a calm, 
comes the storm; the winds blow by turns; day succeeds night; 
some of the heavenly bodies rise, and some set. Eternity consists 
of opposites.
  It is to this law that our souls must adjust themselves, this they 
should follow, this they should obey. Whatever happens, assume 
that it was bound to happen, and do not be willing to rail at 
Nature. That which you cannot reform, it is best to endure, and 
to attend uncomplainingly upon the God under whose guidance 
everything progresses; for it is a bad soldier who grumbles when 
following his commander.
  For this reason we should welcome our orders with energy 
and vigour, nor should we cease to follow the natural course of 
this most beautiful universe, into which all our future sufferings 
are woven.
  Let us address Jupiter, the pilot of this world-mass, as did our 
great Cleanthes in those most eloquent lines—lines which I shall 
allow myself to render in Latin, after the example of the eloquent 
Cicero. If you like them, make the most of them; if they displease 
you, you will understand that I have simply been following the 
practice of Cicero:
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 137

     Lead me, O Master of the lofty heavens,

     My Father, whithersoever thou shalt wish.
     I shall not falter, but obey with speed.
     And though I would not, I shall go, and suffer,
     In sin and sorrow what I might have done
     In noble virtue. Aye, the willing soul
     Fate leads, but the unwilling drags along.[2]

  Let us live thus, and speak thus; let Fate find us ready and alert. 
Here is your great soul—the man who has given himself over to 
Fate; on the other hand, that man is a weakling and a degenerate 
who struggles and maligns the order of the universe and would 
rather reform the gods than reform himself. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Vergil, Aen. vi. 274 f.
2. Cleanthes, Frag. 527 von Arnim. In Epictetus (Ench. 53) these verses are 
 assigned to Cleanthes (omitting the last line); while St. Augustine (Civ. 
 Dei. v. 8) quotes them as Seneca’s: Annaei Senecae sunt, nisi fallor, hi versus. 
 Wilamowitz and others follow the latter view.
                   LETTER 108
       On the Approaches to Philosophy
                        A

The topic about which you ask me is one of those where our only 
concern with knowledge is to have the knowledge. Nevertheless, 
because it does so far concern us, you are in a hurry; you are not 
willing to wait for the books which I am at this moment arrang-
ing for you, and which embrace the whole department of moral 
philosophy.[1] I shall send you the books at once; but I shall, before 
doing that, write and tell you how this eagerness to learn, with 
which I see you are aflame, should be regulated, so that it may 
not get in its own way.
  Things are not to be gathered at random; nor should they be 
greedily attacked in the mass; one will arrive at a knowledge of the 
whole by studying the parts. The burden should be suited to your 
strength, nor should you tackle more than you can adequately 
handle. Absorb not all that you wish, but all that you can hold. 
Only be of a sound mind, and then you will be able to hold all 
that you wish. For the more the mind receives, the more does it 
expand.
  This was the advice, I remember, which Attalus[2] gave me in 
the days when I practically laid siege to his class-room, the first to 
arrive and the last to leave. Even as he paced up and down, I would 
challenge him to various discussions; for he not only kept himself 
accessible to his pupils, but met them half-way. His words were: 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 139

“The same purpose should possess both master and scholar—an 
ambition in the one case to promote, and in the other to progress.”
  He who studies with a philosopher should take away with him 
some one good thing every day: he should daily return home a 
sounder man, or in the way to become sounder. And he will thus 
return; for it is one of the functions of philosophy to help not only 
those who study her, but those also who associate with her. He 
that walks in the sun, though he walk not for that purpose, must 
needs become sunburned. He who frequents the perfumer’s shop 
and lingers even for a short time, will carry with him the scent of 
the place. And he who follows a philosopher is bound to derive 
some benefit therefrom, which will help him even though he be 
remiss. Mark what I say: “remiss,” not “recalcitrant.”
  “What then?” you say, “do we not know certain men who have 
sat for many years at the feet of a philosopher and yet have not 
acquired the slightest tinge of wisdom?” Of course I know such 
men. There are indeed persevering gentlemen who stick at it; I do 
not call them pupils of the wise, but merely “squatters.”[3]
  Certain of them come to hear and not to learn, just as we are 
attracted to the theatre to satisfy the pleasures of the ear, whether 
by a speech, or by a song, or by a play. This class, as you will see, 
constitutes a large part of the listeners, who regard the philoso-
pher’s lecture-room merely as a sort of lounging-place for their 
leisure. They do not set about to lay aside any faults there, or to 
receive a rule of life, by which they may test their characters; they 
merely wish to enjoy to the full the delights of the ear. And yet 
some arrive even with notebooks, not to take down the matter, 
but only the words,[4] that they may presently repeat them to oth-
ers with as little profit to these as they themselves received when 
they heard them.
  A certain number are stirred by high-sounding phrases, and 
adapt themselves to the emotions of the speaker with lively change 
140 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

of face and mind—just like the emasculated Phrygian priests[5] 
who are wont to be roused by the sound of the flute and go mad 
to order. But the true hearer is ravished and stirred by the beauty 
of the subject matter, not by the jingle of empty words. When a 
bold word has been uttered in defiance of death, or a saucy fling 
in defiance of Fortune, we take delight in acting straightway upon 
that which we have heard. Men are impressed by such words, 
and become what they are bidden to be, should but the impres-
sion abide in the mind, and should the populace, who discourage 
honourable things, not immediately lie in wait to rob them of this 
noble impulse; only a few can carry home the mental attitude with 
which they were inspired.
  It is easy to rouse a listener so that he will crave righteousness; 
for Nature has laid the foundations and planted the seeds of virtue 
in us all. And we are all born to these general privileges; hence, 
when the stimulus is added, the good spirit is stirred as if it were 
freed from bonds. Have you not noticed how the theatre re-echoes 
whenever any words are spoken whose truth we appreciate gener-
ally and confirm unanimously.

     The poor lack much; the greedy man lacks all.[6]

     A greedy man does good to none; he does
     Most evil to himself.[7]

  At such verses as these, your meanest miser claps applause and 
rejoices to hear his own sins reviled. How much more do you 
think this holds true, when such things are uttered by a philoso-
pher, when he introduces verses among his wholesome precepts, 
that he may thus make those verses sink more effectively into the 
mind of the neophyte!
  Cleanthes used to say:[8] “As our breath produces a louder 
sound when it passes through the long and narrow opening of 
the trumpet and escapes by a hole which widens at the end, even 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 141

so the fettering rules of poetry clarify our meaning.” The very 
same words are more carelessly received and make less impression 
upon us, when they are spoken in prose; but when metre is added 
and when regular prosody has compressed a noble idea, then the 
selfsame thought comes, as it were, hurtling with a fuller fling.
  We talk much about despising money, and we give advice 
on this subject in the lengthiest of speeches, that mankind may 
believe true riches to exist in the mind and not in one’s bank 
account, and that the man who adapts himself to his slender 
means and makes himself wealthy on a little sum, is the truly 
rich man; but our minds are struck more effectively when a verse 
like this is repeated:

     He needs but little who desires but little.

or,
     He hath his wish, whose wish includeth naught

     Save that which is enough.[9]

  When we hear such words as these, we are led towards a con-
fession of the truth.
  Even men in whose opinion nothing is enough, wonder and 
applaud when they hear such words, and swear eternal hatred 
against money. When you see them thus disposed, strike home, 
keep at them, and charge them with this duty, dropping all double 
meanings, syllogisms, hair-splitting, and the other side-shows of 
ineffective smartness. Preach against greed, preach against high 
living; and when you notice that you have made progress and 
impressed the minds of your hearers, lay on still harder. You 
cannot imagine how much progress can be brought about by an 
address of that nature, when you are bent on curing your hearers 
and are absolutely devoted to their best interests. For when the 
mind is young, it may most easily be won over to desire what is 
142 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

honourable and upright; truth, if she can obtain a suitable pleader, 
will lay strong hands upon those who can still be taught, those 
who have been but superficially spoiled.
  At any rate, when I used to hear Attalus denouncing sin, error, 
and the evils of life, I often felt sorry for mankind and regarded 
Attalus as a noble and majestic being—above our mortal heights. 
He called himself a king,[10] but I thought him more than a king, 
because he was entitled to pass judgment on kings.
  And in truth, when he began to uphold poverty, and to show 
what a useless and dangerous burden was everything that passed 
the measure of our need, I often desired to leave his lecture-room 
a poor man. Whenever he castigated our pleasure-seeking lives, 
and extolled personal purity, moderation in diet, and a mind free 
from unnecessary, not to speak of unlawful, pleasures, the desire 
came upon me to limit my food and drink.
  And that is why some of these habits have stayed with me, 
Lucilius. For I had planned my whole life with great resolves. And 
later, when I returned to the duties of a citizen, I did indeed keep a 
few of these good resolutions. That is why I have forsaken oysters 
and mushrooms for ever: since they are not really food, but are 
relishes to bully the sated stomach into further eating, as is the 
fancy of gourmands and those who stuff themselves beyond their 
powers of digestion: down with it quickly, and up with it quickly!
  That is why I have also throughout my life avoided perfumes; 
because the best scent for the person is no scent at all.[11] That is 
why my stomach is unacquainted with wine. That is why through-
out my life I have shunned the bath, and have believed that to 
emaciate the body and sweat it into thinness is at once unprof-
itable and effeminate. Other resolutions have been broken, but 
after all in such a way that, in cases where I ceased to practice 
abstinence, I have observed a limit which is indeed next door to 
abstinence; perhaps it is even a little more difficult, because it 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 143

is easier for the will to cut off certain things utterly than to use 
them with restraint.
  Inasmuch as I have begun to explain to you how much greater 
was my impulse to approach philosophy in my youth than to 
continue it in my old age, I shall not be ashamed to tell you what 
ardent zeal Pythagoras inspired in me. Sotion[12] used to tell me 
why Pythagoras abstained from animal food, and why, in later 
times, Sextius did also. In each case, the reason was different, but 
it was in each case a noble reason.
  Sextius believed that man had enough sustenance without 
resorting to blood, and that a habit of cruelty is formed when-
ever butchery is practiced for pleasure. Moreover, he thought we 
should curtail the sources of our luxury; he argued that a varied 
diet was contrary to the laws of health, and was unsuited to our 
constitutions.
  Pythagoras, on the other hand, held that all beings were inter-
related, and that there was a system of exchange between souls 
which transmigrated from one bodily shape into another. If one 
may believe him, no soul perishes or ceases from its functions at 
all, except for a tiny interval—when it is being poured from one 
body into another. We may question at what time and after what 
seasons of change the soul returns to man, when it has wandered 
through many a dwelling-place; but meantime, he made men fear-
ful of guilt and parricide, since they might be, without knowing 
it, attacking the soul of a parent and injuring it with knife or with 
teeth—if, as is possible, the related spirit be dwelling temporarily 
in this bit of flesh!
  When Sotion had set forth this doctrine, supplementing it with 
his own proofs, he would say: “You do not believe that souls are 
assigned, first to one body and then to another, and that our so-
called death is merely a change of abode? You do not believe that 
in cattle, or in wild beasts, or in creatures of the deep, the soul 
144 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

of him who was once a man may linger? You do not believe that 
nothing on this earth is annihilated, but only changes its haunts? 
And that animals also have cycles of progress and, so to speak, 
an orbit for their souls, no less than the heavenly bodies, which 
revolve in fixed circuits? Great men have put faith in this idea; 
therefore, while holding to your own view, keep the whole ques-
tion in abeyance in your mind. If the theory is true, it is a mark 
of purity to refrain from eating flesh; if it be false, it is economy. 
And what harm does it do to you to give such credence? I am 
merely depriving you of food which sustains lions and vultures.”
  I was imbued with this teaching, and began to abstain from 
animal food; at the end of a year the habit was as pleasant as it 
was easy. I was beginning to feel that my mind was more active; 
though I would not today positively state whether it really was or 
not. Do you ask how I came to abandon the practice? It was this 
way: The days of my youth coincided with the early part of the 
reign of Tiberius Caesar. Some foreign rites were at that time[13] 
being inaugurated, and abstinence from certain kinds of animal 
food was set down as a proof of interest in the strange cult. So at 
the request of my father, who did not fear prosecution, but who 
detested philosophy, I returned to my previous habits; and it was 
no very hard matter to induce me to dine more comfortably.
  Attalus used to recommend a pillow which did not give in to 
the body; and now, old as I am, I use one so hard that it leaves no 
trace after pressure. I have mentioned all this in order to show 
you how zealous neophytes are with regard to their first impulses 
towards the highest ideals, provided that some one does his part 
in exhorting them and in kindling their ardour. There are indeed 
mistakes made, through the fault of our advisers, who teach us 
how to debate and not how to live; there are also mistakes made 
by the pupils, who come to their teachers to develop, not their 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 145

souls, but their wits. Thus the study of wisdom has become the 
study of words.
  Now it makes a great deal of difference what you have in mind 
when you approach a given subject. If a man is to be a scholar,[14] 
and is examining the works of Vergil, he does not interpret the 
noble passage

     Time flies away, and cannot be restored[15]

in the following sense: “We must wake up; unless we hasten, we 
shall be left behind. Time rolls swiftly ahead, and rolls us with 
it. We are hurried along ignorant of our destiny; we arrange all 
our plans for the future, and on the edge of a precipice are at our 
ease.” Instead of this, he brings to our attention how often Vergil, 
in speaking of the rapidity of time, uses the word “flies” fugit( ).

     The choicest days of hapless human life

     Fly first; disease and bitter eld succeed,
     And toil, till harsh death rudely snatches all.[16]

  He who considers these lines in the spirit of a philosopher 
comments on the words in their proper sense: “Vergil never says, 
‘Time goes,’ but ‘Time flies,’ because the latter is the quickest kind 
of movement, and in every case our best days are the first to be 
snatched away; why, then, do we hesitate to bestir ourselves so that 
we may be able to keep pace with this swiftest of all swift things?” 
The good flies past and the bad takes its place.
  Just as the purest wine flows from the top of the jar and the 
thickest dregs settle at the bottom; so in our human life, that 
which is best comes first. Shall we allow other men to quaff the 
best, and keep the dregs for ourselves? Let this phrase cleave to 
your soul; you should be satisfied thereby as if it were uttered by 
an oracle:
146 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

     Each choicest day of hapless human life

     Flies first.

  Why “choicest day?” Because what’s to come is unsure. Why 
“choicest day”? Because in our youth we are able to learn; we can 
bend to nobler purposes minds that are ready and still pliable; 
because this is the time for work, the time for keeping our minds 
busied in study and in exercising our bodies with useful effort; 
for that which remains is more sluggish and lacking in spirit—
nearer the end.
  Let us therefore strive with all courage, omitting attractions 
by the way; let us struggle with a single purpose, lest, when we 
are left behind, we comprehend too late the speed of quick-flying 
time, whose course we cannot stay. Let every day, as soon as it 
comes, be welcome as being the choicest, and let it be made our 
own possession.
  We must catch that which flees. Now he who scans with a 
scholar’s eye the lines I have just quoted, does not reflect that 
our first days are the best because disease is approaching and 
old age weighs upon us and hangs over our heads while we are 
still thinking about our youth. He thinks rather of Vergil’s usual 
collocation of disease and eld; and indeed rightly. For old age is 
a disease which we cannot cure.
  “Besides,” he says to himself, “think of the epithet that accom-
panies eld; Vergil calls it bitter”—

     Disease and bitter eld succeed.

And elsewhere Vergil says:

     There dwelleth pale disease and bitter eld.[17]
                            Moral Letters to Lucilius 147

   There is no reason why you should marvel that each man can 
 collect from the same source suitable matter for his own studies; 
 for in the same meadow the cow grazes, the dog hunts the hare, 
 and the stork the lizard.
   When Cicero’s book On the State is opened by a philologist, a 
 scholar, or a follower of philosophy, each man pursues his inves-
 tigation in his own way. The philosopher wonders that so much 
 could have been said therein against justice. The philologist takes 
 up the same book and comments on the text as follows: There 
 were two Roman kings—one without a father and one without 
 a mother. For we cannot settle who was Servius’s mother, and 
 Ancus, the grandson of Numa, has no father on record.[18]
   The philologist also notes that the officer whom we call dicta-
 tor, and about whom we read in our histories under that title, was 
 named in old times the magister populi; such is the name existing 
 today in the augural records, proved by the fact that he whom 
 the dictator chose as second in command was called magister 
 equitum. He will remark, too, that Romulus met his end during 
 an eclipse; that there was an appeal to the people even from the 
 kings (this is so stated in the pontiffs’ register and is the opinion 
 of others, including Fenestella[19]).
   When the scholar unrolls this same volume, he puts down in 
 his notebook the forms of words, noting that reapse, equivalent 
to re ipsa, is used by Cicero, and sepse[20] just as frequently, which 
means se ipse. Then he turns his attention to changes in current 
usage. Cicero, for example, says: “Inasmuch as we are summoned 
back from the very calx by his interruption.” Now the line in the 
circus which we call the creta[21] was called the calx by men of 
old time.
  Again, he puts together some verses by Ennius, especially those 
which referred to Africanus:
148 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

     A man to whom nor friend nor foe could give

     Due meed for all his efforts and his deed.[22]

  From this passage the scholar declares that he infers the word 
opem to have meant formerly not merely assistance, but efforts. 
For Ennius must mean that neither friend nor foe could pay 
Scipio a reward worthy of his efforts.
  Next, he congratulates himself on finding the source of Vergil’s 
words:

     Over whose head the mighty gate of Heaven

     Thunders,[23]

remarking that Ennius stole the idea from Homer, and Vergil from 
Ennius. For there is a couplet by Ennius, preserved in this same 
book of Cicero’s, On the State:[24]

     If it be right for a mortal to scale the regions of Heaven,

     Then the huge gate of the sky opens in glory tome. 

  But that I, too, while engaged upon another task, may not slip 
into the department of the philologist or the scholar, my advice 
is this—that all study of philosophy and all reading should be 
applied to the idea of living the happy life, that we should not 
hunt out archaic or far-fetched words and eccentric metaphors 
and figures of speech, but that we should seek precepts which 
will help us, utterances of courage and spirit which may at once 
be turned into facts. We should so learn them that words may 
become deeds.
  And I hold that no man has treated mankind worse than he 
who has studied philosophy as if it were some marketable trade, 
who lives in a different manner from that which he advises. For 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 149

those who are liable to every fault which they castigate advertise 
themselves as patterns of useless training.
  A teacher like that can help me no more than a sea-sick pilot 
can be efficient in a storm. He must hold the tiller when the waves 
are tossing him; he must wrestle, as it were, with the sea; he must 
furl his sails when the storm rages; what good is a frightened and 
vomiting steersman to me? And how much greater, think you, is 
the storm of life than that which tosses any ship! One must steer, 
not talk.
  All the words that these men utter and juggle before a listening 
crowd, belong to others.
  They have been spoken by Plato, spoken by Zeno, spoken by 
Chrysippus or by Posidonius, and by a whole host of Stoics as 
numerous as excellent. I shall show you how men can prove their 
words to be their own: it is by doing what they have been talking 
about. Since therefore I have given you the message I wished to 
pass on to you, I shall now satisfy your craving and shall reserve 
for a new letter a complete answer to your summons; so that you 
may not approach in a condition of weariness a subject which 
is thorny and which should be followed with an attentive and 
painstaking ear. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Cf. Ep. cvi. 2 scis enim me moralem philosophiam velle conplecti, etc.
  2. Seneca’s first and most convincing teacher of Stoicism, to whom this letter 
  is a tribute. The ablest of contemporary philosophers, he was banished 
  during the reign of Tiberius. See Index of Proper Names.
  3. Literally “tenants,” “lodgers,” of a temporary sort.
  4. Cf. the dangers of such lusoria (Ep. xlviii. 8) and a rebus studium 
  transferendum est ad verba (Ep. xl. 14).
  5. i.e., mendicant Galli, worshippers of Cybele, the Magna Mater.
 6. Syri Sententiae, Frag. 236 Ribbeck.
 7. Ib., Frag. 234 R.
  8. Frag. 487 von Arnim.
  9. Pall. Incert. Fab. 65 and 66 Ribbeck.
10. A characteristic Stoic paradox.
150   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

11. An almost proverbial saying; cf. the recte olet ubi nil olet of Plautus (Most. 
   273), Cicero, and Martial.
12. Pythagorean philosopher of the Augustine age, and one of Seneca’s early 
   teachers.
13. A.D. 19. Cf. Tacitus, Ann. ii. 85 actum de sacris Aegyptiis Iudaicisque 
   pellendis.
14. In this passage Seneca differs (as also in Ep. lxxxviii. § 3) from the earlier 
   Roman idea of grammaticus as poetarum interpres: he is thinking of one 
   who deals with verbal expressions and the meaning of words. Cf. Sandys, 
   Hist. Class. Schol. i. 8 ff.
15. Georg. iii. 284.
16. Georg. iii. 66 ff.
17. Aen. vi. 275.
18. Cicero, De re publica, ii. 18 Numae Pompili nepos ex filia rex a populo 
   est Ancus Marcius constitutus . . . siquidem istius regis matrem habemus, 
   ignoramus patrem.
19. Fl. in the Augustan Age. Provocatio is defined by Greenidge (Rom. Pub. 
   Life. p. 64) as “a challenge by an accused to a magistrate to appear before 
   another tribunal.”
20. A suffix, probably related to the intensive -pte
21. Literally, the chalk-marked, or lime-marked, goal-line.
22. Vahlen’s Ennius, p. 215.
23. Georg. iii. 260 f.
24. Vahlen’s Ennius, p. 216.
                   LETTER 109
        On the Fellowship of Wise Men
                       A

You expressed a wish to know whether a wise man can help a 
wise man. For we say that the wise man is completely endowed 
with every good, and has attained perfection; accordingly, the 
question arises how it is possible for anyone to help a person who 
possesses the Supreme Good.
  Good men are mutually helpful; for each gives practice to the 
other’s virtues and thus maintains wisdom at its proper level. 
Each needs someone with whom he may make comparisons and 
investigations.
  Skilled wrestlers are kept up to the mark by practice; a musician 
is stirred to action by one of equal proficiency. The wise man also 
needs to have his virtues kept in action; and as he prompts himself 
to do things, so is he prompted by another wise man.
  How can a wise man help another wise man? He can quicken 
his impulses, and point out to him opportunities for honour-
able action. Besides, he can develop some of his own ideas; he 
can impart what he has discovered. For even in the case of the 
wise man something will always remain to discover, something 
towards which his mind may make new ventures.
  Evil men harm evil men; each debases the other by rousing 
his wrath, by approving his churlishness, and praising his plea-
sures; bad men are at their worst stage when their faults are most 
152 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

thoroughly intermingled, and their wickedness has been, so to 
speak, pooled in partnership. Conversely, therefore, a good man 
will help another good man. “How?” you ask.
  Because he will bring joy to the other, he will strengthen his 
faith, and from the contemplation of their mutual tranquillity the 
delight of both will be increased. Moreover they will communicate 
to each other a knowledge of certain facts; for the wise man is not 
all-knowing.[1] And even if he were all-knowing, someone might 
be able to devise and point out short cuts, by which the whole 
matter is more readily disseminated. 
  The wise will help the wise, not, mark you, because of his own 
strength merely, but because of the strength of the man whom he 
assists. The latter, it is true, can by himself develop his own parts; 
nevertheless, even one who is running well is helped by one who 
cheers him on.
  “But the wise man does not really help the wise; he helps him-
self. Let me tell you this: strip the one of his special powers, and 
the other will accomplish nothing.”
  You might as well, on that basis, say that sweetness is not in 
the honey: for it is the person himself who is to eat it, that is so 
equipped, as to tongue and palate, for tasting this kind of food that 
the special flavour appeals to him, and anything else displeases. 
For there are certain men so affected by disease that they regard 
honey as bitter. Both men should be in good health, that the one 
may be helpful and the other a proper subject for help.
  Again they say: “When the highest degree of heat has been 
attained, it is superfluous to apply more heat; and when the 
Supreme Good has been attained, it is superfluous to have a 
helper. Does a completely stocked farmer ask for further supplies 
from his neighbours? Does a soldier who is sufficiently armed for 
going well-equipped into action need any more weapons? Very 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 153

well, neither does the wise man; for he is sufficiently equipped 
and sufficiently armed for life.”
  My answer to this is, that when one is heated to the highest 
degree, one must have continued heat to maintain the highest 
temperature. And if it be objected that heat is self-maintaining, I 
say that there are great distinctions among the things that you are 
comparing; for heat is a single thing, but helpfulness is of many 
kinds. Again, heat is not helped by the addition of further heat, 
in order to be hot; but the wise man cannot maintain his mental 
standard without intercourse with friends of his own kind—with 
whom he may share his goodness.
  Moreover, there is a sort of mutual friendship among all the 
virtues.[2] Thus, he who loves the virtues of certain among his 
peers, and in turn exhibits his own to be loved, is helpful. Like 
things give pleasure, especially when they are honourable and 
when men know that there is mutual approval.
  And besides, none but a wise man can prompt another wise 
man’s soul in an intelligent way, just as man can be prompted in 
a rational way by man only. As, therefore, reason is necessary for 
the prompting of reason, so, in order to prompt perfect reason, 
there is need of perfect reason.
  Some say that we are helped even by those[3] who bestow on 
us the so-called “indifferent” benefits, such as money, influence, 
security, and all the other valued or essential aids to living. If we 
argue in this way, the veriest fool will be said to help a wise man. 
Helping, however, really means prompting the soul in accordance 
with Nature, both by the prompter’s excellence and by the excel-
lence of him who is thus prompted. And this cannot take place 
without advantage to the helper also. For in training the excel-
lence of another, a man must necessarily train his own.
  But, to omit from discussion supreme goods or the things 
which produce them, wise men can none the less be mutually 
154 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

helpful. For the mere discovery of a sage by a sage is in itself a 
desirable event; since everything good is naturally dear to the 
good man, and for this reason one feels congenial with a good 
man as one feels congenial with oneself.
  It is necessary for me to pass from this topic to another, in order 
to prove my point. For the question is asked, whether the wise 
man will weigh his opinions, or whether he will apply to others 
for advice. Now he is compelled to do this when he approaches 
state and home duties—everything, so to speak, that is mortal. 
He needs outside advice on such matters, as does the physician, 
the pilot, the attorney, or the pleader of cases. Hence, the wise 
will sometimes help the wise; for they will persuade each other. 
But in these matters of great import also—aye, of divine import, 
as I have termed them—the wise man can also be useful by dis-
cussing honourable things in common, and by contributing his 
thoughts and ideas.
  Moreover, it is in accordance with Nature to show affection 
for our friends, and to rejoice in their advancement as if it were 
absolutely our own. For if we have not done this, even virtue, 
which grows strong only through exercising our perceptions, will 
not abide with us. Now virtue advises us to arrange the present 
well, to take thought regarding the future, to deliberate and apply 
our minds; and one who takes a friend into council with him, can 
more easily apply his mind and think out his problem.
  Therefore he will seek either the perfect wise man or one who 
has progressed to a point bordering on perfection. The perfect 
wise man, moreover, will help us if he aids our counsels with 
ordinary good sense.
  They say that men see farther in the affairs of others than in 
their own. A defect of character causes this in those who are 
blinded by self-love, and whose fear in the hour of peril takes away 
their clear view of that which is useful; it is when a man is more at 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 155

ease and freed from fear that he will begin to be wise. Neverthe-
less, there are certain matters where even wise men see the facts 
more clearly in the case of others than in their own. Moreover, 
the wise man will, in company with his fellow sage, confirm the 
truth of that most sweet and honourable proverb—“always desir-
ing and always refusing the same things”: it will be a noble result 
when they draw the load “with equal yoke.”[4]
  I have thus answered your demand, although it came under the 
head of subjects which I include in my volumes On Moral Philoso-
phy.[5] Reflect, as I am often wont to tell you, that there is nothing in 
such topics for us except mental gymnastics. For I return again and 
again to the thought: “What good does this do me? Make me more 
brave now, more just, more restrained! I have not yet the oppor-
tunity to make use of my training; for I still need the physician.
  Why do you ask of me a useless knowledge? You have promised 
great things; test me, watch me! You assured me that I should be 
unterrified though swords were flashing round me, though the 
point of the blade were grazing my throat; you assured me that I 
should be at ease though fires were blazing round me, or though 
a sudden whirlwind should snatch up my ship and carry it over 
all the sea. Now make good for me such a course of treatment 
that I may despise pleasure and glory. Thereafter you shall teach 
me to work out complicated problems, to settle doubtful points, 
to see through that which is not clear; teach me now what it is 
necessary for me to know!” Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., in possession of a perfect, an encyclopaedic, wisdom.
2. In other words, Wisdom, Justice, Courage, and Self-Restraint, together 
 with the other qualities of simplicity, kindness, etc., being “avatars” of 
 Virtue herself, are interrelated.
3. e.g., certain of the Peripatetic school.
4. Sallust, Cat. xx. 4 idem velle atque idem nolle, ea demum firma amicitia est. 
 Cf. the Greek “ἴσῳ ζυγῷ,” “yoked equally together.”
5. Cf. Ep. cviii. 1 and note.

                   LETTER 110
           On True and False Riches
                       A

From my villa at Nomentum[1] I send you greeting and bid you 
keep a sound spirit within you—in other words, gain the blessing 
of all the gods, for he is assured of their grace and favour who 
has become a blessing to himself. Lay aside for the present the 
belief of certain persons—that a god is assigned to each one of 
us as a sort of attendant—not a god of regular rank, but one of 
a lower grade—one of those whom Ovid calls “plebeian gods.”[2] 
Yet, while laying aside this belief, I would have you remember that 
our ancestors, who followed such a creed, have become Stoics; 
for they have assigned a Genius or a Juno to every individual.[3]
  Later on we shall investigate whether the gods have enough 
time on their hands to care for the concerns of private individuals; 
in the meantime, you must know that whether we are allotted to 
special guardians, or whether we are neglected and consigned to 
Fortune, you can curse a man with no heavier curse than to pray 
that he may be at enmity with himself.
  There is no reason, however, why you should ask the gods to 
be hostile to anyone whom you regard as deserving of punish-
ment; they are hostile to such a person, I maintain, even though 
he seems to be advanced by their favour.

Artwork opposite by Marcin Warzecha
158 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  Apply careful investigation, considering how our affairs actu-
ally stand, and not what men say of them; you will then under-
stand that evils are more likely to help us than to harm us. For 
how often has so-called affliction been the source and the begin-
ning of happiness! How often have privileges which we welcomed 
with deep thanksgiving built steps for themselves to the top of a 
precipice, still uplifting men who were already distinguished—just 
as if they had previously stood in a position whence they could 
fall in safety!
  But this very fall has in it nothing evil, if you consider the 
end,[4] after which nature lays no man lower. The universal limit 
is near; yes, there is near us the point where the prosperous man 
is upset, and the point where the unfortunate is set free. It is we 
ourselves that extend both these limits, lengthening them by our 
hopes and by our fears.
  If, however, you are wise, measure all things according to the 
state of man; restrict at the same time both your joys and your 
fears. Moreover, it is worth while not to rejoice at anything for 
long, so that you may not fear anything for long.
  But why do I confine the scope of this evil? There is no rea-
son why you should suppose that anything is to be feared. All 
these things which stir us and keep us a-flutter, are empty things. 
None of us has sifted out the truth; we have passed fear on to one 
another; none has dared to approach the object which caused his 
dread, and to understand the nature of his fear—aye, the good 
behind it. That is why falsehood and vanity still gain credit—
because they are not refuted.
  Let us account it worth while to look closely at the matter; then 
it will be clear how fleeting, how unsure, and how harmless are 
the things which we fear. The disturbance in our spirits is similar 
to that which Lucretius detected:

     Like boys who cower frightened in the dark,
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 159

     So grown-ups in the light of day feel fear.[5]

  What, then? Are we not more foolish than any child, we who 
“in the light of day feel fear”?
  But you were wrong, Lucretius; we are not afraid in the day-
light; we have turned everything into a state of darkness. We see 
neither what injures nor what profits us; all our lives through we 
blunder along, neither stopping nor treading more carefully on 
this account. But you see what madness it is to rush ahead in the 
dark. Indeed, we are bent on getting ourselves called back[6] from 
a greater distance; and though we do not know our goal, yet we 
hasten with wild speed in the direction whither we are straining.
  The light, however, may begin to shine, provided we are willing. 
But such a result can come about only in one way—if we acquire 
by knowledge this familiarity with things divine and human, if 
we not only flood ourselves but steep ourselves therein, if a man 
reviews the same principles even though he understands them 
and applies them again and again to himself, if he has investi-
gated what is good, what is evil, and what has falsely been so 
entitled; and, finally, if he has investigated honour and baseness, 
and Providence.
  The range of the human intelligence is not confined within 
these limits; it may also explore outside the universe—its des-
tination and its source, and the ruin towards which all nature 
hastens so rapidly. We have withdrawn the soul from this divine 
contemplation and dragged it into mean and lowly tasks, so that 
it might be a slave to greed, so that it might forsake the universe 
and its confines, and, under the command of masters who try 
all possible schemes, pry beneath the earth and seek what evil it 
can dig up therefrom—discontented with that which was freely 
offered to it.
  Now God, who is the Father of us all, has placed ready to our 
hands those things which he intended for our own good; he did 
160 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

not wait for any search on our part, and he gave them to us vol-
untarily. But that which would be injurious, he buried deep in 
the earth. We can complain of nothing but ourselves; for we have 
brought to light the materials for our destruction, against the will 
of Nature, who hid them from us. We have bound over our souls 
to pleasure, whose service is the source of all evil; we have sur-
rendered ourselves to self-seeking and reputation, and to other 
aims which are equally idle and useless.
  What, then, do I now encourage you to do? Nothing new—we 
are not trying to find cures for new evils—but this first of all: 
namely, to see clearly for yourself what is necessary and what is 
superfluous. What is necessary will meet you everywhere; what 
is superfluous has always to be hunted-out—and with great 
endeavour.
  But there is no reason why you should flatter yourself over-
much if you despise gilded couches and jewelled furniture. For 
what virtue lies in despising useless things? The time to admire 
your own conduct is when you have come to despise the neces-
sities. You are doing no great thing if you can live without royal 
pomp, if you feel no craving for boars which weigh a thousand 
pounds, or for flamingo tongues, or for the other absurdities 
of a luxury that already wearies of game cooked whole, and 
chooses different bits from separate animals; I shall admire you 
only when you have learned to scorn even the common sort of 
bread, when you have made yourself believe that grass grows 
for the needs of men as well as of cattle, when you have found 
out that food from the treetop[7] can fill the belly—into which 
we cram things of value as if it could keep what it has received. 
We should satisfy our stomachs without being over-nice. How 
does it matter what the stomach receives, since it must lose 
whatever it has received? 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 161

  You enjoy the carefully arranged dainties which are caught on 
land and sea; some are more pleasing if they are brought fresh to 
the table, others, if after long feeding and forced fattening they 
almost melt and can hardly retain their own grease. You like the 
subtly devised flavour of these dishes. But I assure you that such 
carefully chosen and variously seasoned dishes, once they have 
entered the belly, will be overtaken alike by one and the same 
corruption. Would you despise the pleasures of eating? Then con-
sider its result!
  I remember some words of Attalus, which elicited general 
applause: “Riches long deceived me. I used to be dazed when I 
caught some gleam of them here and there. I used to think that 
their hidden influence matched their visible show. But once, at a 
certain elaborate entertainment, I saw embossed work in silver 
and gold equalling the wealth of a whole city, and colours and 
tapestry devised to match objects which surpassed the value of 
gold or of silver—brought not only from beyond our own bor-
ders, but from beyond the borders of our enemies; on one side 
were slave-boys notable for their training and beauty, on the other 
were throngs of slave-women, and all the other resources that 
a prosperous and mighty empire could offer after reviewing its 
possessions.
  What else is this, I said to myself, than a stirring-up of man’s 
cravings, which are in themselves provocative of lust? What is 
the meaning of all this display of money? Did we gather merely 
to learn what greed was? For my own part I left the place with 
less craving than I had when I entered. I came to despise riches, 
not because of their uselessness, but because of their pettiness.
  Have you noticed how, inside a few hours, that programme, 
however slow-moving and carefully arranged, was over and done? 
Has a business filled up this whole life of ours, which could not 
fill up a whole day?
162 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  “I had another thought also: the riches seemed to me to be as 
useless to the possessors as they were to the onlookers.
  Accordingly, I say to myself, whenever a show of that sort 
dazzles my eyes, whenever I see a splendid palace with a well-
groomed corps of attendants and beautiful bearers carrying a 
litter: Why wonder? Why gape in astonishment? It is all show; 
such things are displayed, not possessed; while they please they 
pass away.
  Turn thyself rather to the true riches. Learn to be content with 
little, and cry out with courage and with greatness of soul: ‘We 
have water, we have porridge; let us compete in happiness with 
Jupiter himself.’ And why not, I pray thee, make this challenge 
even without porridge and water? For it is base to make the 
happy life depend upon silver and gold, and just as base to make 
it depend upon water and porridge. ‘But,’ some will say, ‘what 
could I do without such things?’
  Do you ask what is the cure for want? It is to make hunger 
satisfy hunger; for, all else being equal, what difference is there in 
the smallness or the largeness of the things that force you to be a 
slave? What matter how little it is that Fortune can refuse to you?
  Your very porridge and water can fall under another’s jurisdic-
tion; and besides, freedom comes, not to him over whom Fortune 
has slight power, but to him over whom she has no power at all. 
This is what I mean: you must crave nothing, if you would vie 
with Jupiter; for Jupiter craves nothing.”
  This is what Attalus told us. If you are willing to think often of 
these things, you will strive not to seem happy, but to be happy, 
and, in addition, to seem happy to yourself rather than to others. 
Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Cf. Ep. civ. 1.
2. Metam. i. 595—a Roman interpretation, along the lines of the Di Indigetes.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    163

3. Every man had his Genius, and every woman her Juno. In the case of the 
  Stoics, God dwelt in every soul.
4. i.e., death, in Stoic language.
5. De Rerum Nat. ii. 5 f.
6. i.e., to the starting-point.
7. i.e., acorns, etc.
                   LETTER 111
     On the Vanity of Mental Gymnastics
                        A

You have asked me to give you a Latin word for the Greek sophis-
mata. Many have tried to define the term, but no name has stuck. 
This is natural, inasmuch as the thing itself has not been admitted 
to general use by us; the name, too, has met with opposition. But 
the word which Cicero used seems to me most suitable: he calls 
them cavillationes.
  If a man has surrendered himself to them, he weaves many a 
tricky subtlety, but makes no progress toward real living; he does 
not thereby become braver, or more restrained, or loftier of spirit.
  He, however, who has practiced philosophy to effect his own 
cure, becomes high-souled, full of confidence, invincible, and 
greater as you draw near him.
  This phenomenon is seen in the case of high mountains, which 
appear less lofty when beheld from afar, but which prove clearly 
how high the peaks are when you come near them; such, my dear 
Lucilius, is our true philosopher, true by his acts and not by his 
tricks. He stands in a high place, worthy of admiration, lofty, and 
really great. He does not stretch himself or walk on tiptoe like 
those who seek to improve their height by deceit, wishing to seem 
taller than they really are; he is content with his own greatness.
  And why should he not be content with having grown to 
such a height that Fortune cannot reach her hands to it? He is 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 165

therefore above earthly things, equal to himself under all condi-
tions—whether the current of life runs free, or whether he is 
tossed and travels on troubled and desperate seas; but this stead-
fastness cannot be gained through such hair-splittings as I have 
just mentioned. The mind plays with them, but profits not a whit; 
the mind in such cases is simply dragging philosophy down from 
her heights to the level ground.
  I would not forbid you to practice such exercises occasion-
ally; but let it be at a time when you wish to do nothing. The 
worst feature, however, that these indulgences present is that they 
acquire a sort of self-made charm, occupying and holding the 
soul by a show of subtlety; although such weighty matters claim 
our attention, and a whole life seems scarcely sufficient to learn 
the single principle of despising life. “What? Did you not mean 
‘control’ instead of ‘despise’”? No; “controlling” is the second task; 
for no one has controlled his life aright unless he has first learned 
to despise it. Farewell.
                   LETTER 112
       On Reforming Hardened Sinners
                        A

I am indeed anxious that your friend be moulded and trained, 
according to your desire. But he has been taken in a very hardened 
state, or rather (and this is a more difficult problem), in a very soft 
state, broken down by bad and inveterate habits.
  I should like to give you an illustration from my own handi-
craft.[1]
  It is not every vine that admits the grafting process; if it be old 
and decayed, or if it be weak and slender, the vine either will not 
receive the cutting, or will not nourish it and make it a part of 
itself, nor will it accommodate itself to the qualities and nature of 
the grafted part. Hence we usually cut off the vine above ground, 
so that if we do not get results at first, we may try a second venture, 
and on a second trial graft it below the ground.
  Now this person, concerning whom you have sent me your 
message in writing, has no strength; for he has pampered his vices. 
He has at one and the same time become flabby and hardened. 
He cannot receive reason, nor can he nourish it. “But,” you say, 
“he desires reason of his own free will.” Don’t believe him. Of 
course I do not mean that he is lying to you; for he really thinks 
that he desires it. Luxury has merely upset his stomach; he will 
soon become reconciled to it again.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 167

  “But he says that he is put out with his former way of living.” 
Very likely. Who is not? Men love and hate their vices at the same 
time. It will be the proper season to pass judgment on him when 
he has given us a guarantee that he really hates luxury; as it is 
now, luxury and he are merely not on speaking terms. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Seneca was an extensive and prosperous vine-grower. Compare Ep. civ. 6 
 f. for his description of his hobby at the country-place near Nomentum. 
 There are many figures which deal with the vine scattered through the 
 Letters.
                   LETTER 113
 On the Vanity of the Soul and Its Attributes
                        A

You wish me to write to you my opinion concerning this ques-
tion, which has been mooted by our school—whether justice, 
courage, foresight, and the other virtues, are living things.[1] By 
such niceties as this, my beloved Lucilius, we have made people 
think that we sharpen our wits on useless objects, and waste our 
leisure time in discussions that will be unprofitable. I shall, how-
ever, do as you ask, and shall set forth the subject as viewed by 
our school. For myself, I confess to another belief: I hold that 
there are certain things which befit a wearer of white shoes and 
a Greek mantle.[2] But what the beliefs are that have stirred the 
ancients, or those which the ancients have stirred up for discus-
sion, I shall explain to you.
  The soul, men are agreed, is a living thing, because of itself 
it can make us living things, and because “living things”[3] have 
derived their name therefrom. But virtue is nothing else than a 
soul in a certain condition; therefore it is a living thing. Again, 
virtue is active, and no action can take place without impulse. And 
if a thing has impulse, it must be a living thing; for none except 
a living thing possesses impulse.
  A reply to this is: “If virtue is a living thing, then virtue itself pos-
sesses virtue.” Of course it possesses its own self! Just as the wise 
man does everything by reason of virtue, so virtue accomplishes 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 169

everything by reason of itself. “In that case,” say they, “all the arts 
also are living things, and all our thoughts and all that the mind 
comprehends. It therefore follows that many thousands of living 
things dwell in man’s tiny heart, and that each individual among 
us consists of, or at least contains, many living beings.”
  Are you gravelled for an answer to this remark? Each of these 
will be a living thing; but they will not be many separate living 
things. And why? I shall explain, if you will apply your subtlety 
and your concentration to my words.
  Each living thing must have a separate substance; but since all 
the things mentioned above have a single soul, consequently they 
can be separate living things but without plurality. I myself am 
a living thing, and a man; but you cannot say that there are two 
of me for that reason. And why? Because, if that were so, they 
would have to be two separate existences. This is what I mean: 
one would have to be sundered from the other so as to produce 
two. But whenever you have that which is manifold in one whole, 
it falls into the category of a single nature, and is therefore single.
  My soul is a living thing, and so am I; but we are not two 
separate persons. And why? Because the soul is part of myself. 
It will only be reckoned as a definite thing in itself when it shall 
exist by itself. But as long as it shall be part of another, it cannot 
be regarded as different. And why? I will tell you: it is because 
that which is different, must be personal and peculiar to itself, a 
whole, and complete within itself.
  I myself have gone on record as being of a different opinion;[4] 
for if one adopts this belief, not only the virtues will be living 
things, but so will their contrary vices, and the emotions, like 
wrath, fear, grief, and suspicion. Nay, the argument will carry us 
still further—all opinions and all thoughts will be living things. 
This is by no means admissible; since anything that man does is 
not necessarily the man himself.
170 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  “What is Justice?” people say. Justice is a soul that maintains 
itself in a certain attitude. “Then if the soul is a living being, so 
is Justice.” By no means. For Justice is really a state, a kind of 
power, of the soul; and this same soul is transformed into various 
likenesses and does not become a different kind of living thing 
as often as it acts differently. Nor is the result of soul-action a 
living thing.
  If Justice, Bravery, and the other virtues have actual life, do 
they cease to be living things and then begin life over again, or 
are they always living things?
  But the virtues cannot cease to be. Therefore, there are many, 
nay countless, living things, sojourning in this one soul.
  “No,” is the answer, “not many, because they are all attached 
to the one, being parts and members of a single whole.” We are 
then portraying for ourselves an image of the soul like that of a 
many-headed hydra—each separate head fighting and destroying 
independently. And yet there is no separate living thing to each 
head; it is the head of a living thing, and the hydra itself is one 
single living thing. No one ever believed that the Chimaera con-
tained a living lion or a living serpent;[5] these were merely parts 
of the whole Chimaera; and parts are not living things.
  Then how can you infer that Justice is a living thing? “Justice,” 
people reply, “is active and helpful; that which acts and is helpful, 
possesses impulse; and that which possesses impulse is a living 
thing.” True, if the impulse is its own; (but in the case of justice it 
is not its own;) the impulse comes from the soul.
  Every living thing exists as it began, until death; a man, until 
he dies, is a man, a horse is a horse, a dog a dog. They cannot 
change into anything else. Now let us grant that Justice—which 
is defined as “a soul in a certain attitude,” is a living thing. Let us 
suppose this to be so. Then Bravery also is alive, being “a soul 
in a certain attitude.” But which soul? That which was but now 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 171

defined as Justice? The soul is kept within the first-named being, 
and cannot cross over into another; it must last out its existence 
in the medium where it had its origin.
  Besides, there cannot be one soul to two living things, much 
less to many living things. And if Justice, Bravery, Restraint, and 
all the other virtues, are living things, how will they have one soul? 
They must possess separate souls, or else they are not living things.
  Several living things cannot have one body; this is admitted by 
our very opponents. Now what is the “body”[6] of justice? “The 
soul,” they admit. And of bravery? “The soul also.” And yet there 
cannot be one body of two living things.
  “The same soul, however,” they answer, “assumes the guise of 
Justice, or Bravery, or Restraint.” This would be possible if Bravery 
were absent when Justice was present, and if Restraint were absent 
when Bravery was present; as the case stands now, all the virtues 
exist at the same time. Hence, how can the separate virtues be 
living things, if you grant that there is one single soul,[7] which 
cannot create more than one single living thing?
  Again, no living thing is part of another living thing. But Justice 
is a part of the soul; therefore Justice is not a living thing. It looks 
as if I were wasting time over something that is an acknowledged 
fact; for one ought to decry such a topic rather than debate it. And 
no two living things are equal. Consider the bodies of all beings: 
every one has its particular colour, shape, and size.
  And among the other reasons for marvelling at the genius of 
the Divine Creator is, I believe, this—that amid all this abun-
dance there is no repetition; even seemingly similar things are, 
on comparison, unlike. God has created all the great number of 
leaves that we behold: each, however, is stamped with its special 
pattern. All the many animals: none resembles another in size—
always some difference! The Creator has set himself the task of 
making unlike and unequal things that are different; but all the 
172 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

virtues, as your argument states, are equal. Therefore, they are 
not living things.
  Every living thing acts of itself; but virtue does nothing of itself; 
it must act in conjunction with man. All living things either are 
gifted with reason, like men and gods, or else are irrational, like 
beasts and cattle. Virtues, in any case, are rational; and yet they 
are neither men nor gods; therefore they are not living things.
  Every living thing possessed of reason is inactive if it is not first 
stirred by some external impression; then the impulse comes, and 
finally assent confirms the impulse.[8] Now what assent is, I shall 
explain. Suppose that I ought to take a walk: I do walk, but only 
after uttering the command to myself and approving this opinion 
of mine. Or suppose that I ought to seat myself; I do seat myself, 
but only after the same process. This assent is not a part of virtue.
  For let us suppose that it is Prudence; how will Prudence assent 
to the opinion: “I must take a walk”? Nature does not allow this. 
For Prudence looks after the interests of its possessor, and not of 
its own self. Prudence cannot walk or be seated. Accordingly, it 
does not possess the power of assent, and it is not a living thing 
possessed of reason. But if virtue is a living thing, it is rational. 
But it is not rational; therefore it is not a living thing.
  If virtue is a living thing, and virtue is a Good—is not, then, 
every Good a living thing? It is. Our school professes it.
  Now to save a father’s life is a Good; it is also a Good to pro-
nounce one’s opinion judiciously in the senate, and it is a Good to 
hand down just opinions; therefore the act of saving a father’s life 
is a living thing, also the act of pronouncing judicious opinions. 
We have carried this absurd argument so far that you cannot keep 
from laughing outright: wise silence is a Good, and so is a frugal 
dinner; therefore silence and dining are living things.[9]
  Indeed I shall never cease to tickle my mind and to make sport 
for myself by means of this nice nonsense. Justice and Bravery, if 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 173

they are living things, are certainly of the earth. Now every earthly 
living thing gets cold or hungry or thirsty; therefore, Justice goes 
a-cold, Bravery is hungry, and Kindness craves a drink!
  And what next? Should I not ask our honourable opponents 
what shape these living beings[10] have? Is it that of man, or horse, 
or wild beast? If they are given a round shape, like that of a god, 
I shall ask whether greed and luxury and madness are equally 
round. For these, too, are “living things.” If I find that they give 
a rounded shape to these also, I shall go so far as to ask whether 
a modest gait is a living thing; they must admit it, according to 
their argument, and proceed to say that a gait is a living thing, 
and a rounded living thing, at that!
  Now do not imagine that I am the first one of our school who 
does not speak from rules but has his own opinion: Cleanthes 
and his pupil Chrysippus could not agree in defining the act of 
walking. Cleanthes held that it was spirit transmitted to the feet 
from the primal essence, while Chrysippus maintained that it was 
the primal essence in itself.[11] Why, then, following the example 
of Chrysippus himself, should not every man claim his own free-
dom, and laugh down all these “living things,” so numerous that 
the universe itself cannot contain them?
  One might say: “The virtues are not many living things, and 
yet they are living things. For just as an individual may be both 
poet and orator in one, even so these virtues are living things, 
but they are not many. The soul is the same; it can be at the same 
time just and prudent and brave, maintaining itself in a certain 
attitude towards each virtue.”
  The dispute is settled, and we are therefore agreed. For I shall 
admit, meanwhile, that the soul is a living thing with the proviso 
that later on I may cast my final vote; but I deny that the acts of the 
soul are living beings. Otherwise, all words and all verses would 
be alive; for if prudent speech is a Good, and every Good a living 
174 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

thing, then speech is a living thing. A prudent line of poetry is a 
Good; everything alive is a Good; therefore, the line of poetry is 
a living thing. And so “Arms and the man I sing,” is a living thing; 
but they cannot call it rounded, because it has six feet!
  “This whole proposition,” you say, “which we are at this moment 
discussing, is a puzzling fabric.” I split with laughter whenever I 
reflect that solecisms and barbarisms and syllogisms are living 
things, and, like an artist, I give to each a fitting likeness. Is this 
what we discuss with contracted brow and wrinkled forehead? 
I cannot say now, after Caelius,[12] “What melancholy trifling!” 
It is more than this; it is absurd. Why do we not rather discuss 
something which is useful and wholesome to ourselves, seeking 
how we may attain the virtues, and finding the path which will 
take us in that direction?
  Teach me, not whether Bravery be a living thing, but prove 
that no living thing is happy without bravery, that is, unless it has 
grown strong to oppose hazards and has overcome all the strokes 
of chance by rehearsing and anticipating their attack. And what 
is Bravery? It is the impregnable fortress for our mortal weak-
ness; when a man has surrounded himself therewith, he can hold 
out free from anxiety during life’s siege; for he is using his own 
strength and his own weapons.
  At this point I would quote you a saying of our philosopher 
Posidonius: “There are never any occasions when you need think 
yourself safe because you wield the weapons of Fortune; fight with 
your own! Fortune does not furnish arms against herself; hence 
men equipped against their foes are unarmed against Fortune 
herself.”
  Alexander, to be sure, harried and put to flight the Persians,[13] 
the Hyrcanians, the Indians, and all the other races that the Orient 
spreads even to the Ocean;[14] but he himself, as he slew one friend 
or lost another, would lie in the darkness lamenting sometimes 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 175

his crime, and sometimes his loss;[15] he, the conqueror of so 
many kings and nations, was laid low by anger and grief! For he 
had made it his aim to win control over everything except his 
emotions.
  Oh with what great mistakes are men obsessed, who desire to 
push their limits of empire beyond the seas, who judge them-
selves most prosperous when they occupy many provinces with 
their soldiery and join new territory to the old! Little do they 
know of that kingdom which is on an equality with the heavens 
in greatness!
  Self-Command is the greatest command of all. Let her teach me 
what a hallowed thing is the Justice which ever regards another’s 
good and seeks nothing for itself except its own employment. 
It should have nothing to do with ambition and reputation; it 
should satisfy itself.
  Let each man convince himself of this before all else—“I must 
be just without reward.” And that is not enough; let him convince 
himself also of this: “May I take pleasure in devoting myself of my 
own free will to uphold this noblest of virtues.” Let all his thoughts 
be turned as far as possible from personal interests. You need not 
look about for the reward of a just deed; a just deed in itself offers 
a still greater return.
  Fasten deep in your mind that which I remarked a short 
space above: that it makes no difference how many persons are 
acquainted with your uprightness. Those who wish their virtue 
to be advertised are not striving for virtue but for renown. Are 
you not willing to be just without being renowned? Nay, indeed 
you must often be just and be at the same time disgraced. And 
then, if you are wise, let ill repute, well won, be a delight. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. The fulfilment of the promise made in Ep. cvi. 3 (see note ad loc.).
  2. The allusion is sarcastic. Thephaecasium  was a white shoe worn by Greek 
  priests and Athenian gymnasiarchs—sometimes aped by Romans.
176   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  3. i.e., animal from animus, anima (“breath of life”).
  4. i.e., from those who hold that the man, the soul, and the functions of the 
   soul, can be classed as separate entities; or even from those who believe 
   that it is worth while to discuss the matter at all. See § 1 of this Letter.
  5. Homer, Il. vi. 181 πρόσθε λέων, ὄπιθεν δὲ δράκων, μέσση δὲ χίμαιρα. 
   This is a frequent illustration of the “whole and the parts” among ancient 
   philosophers.
  6. i.e., the form in which it is contained.
  7. The soul is “body,” “world-stuff” (not “matter” in the modern sense). It 
   is therefore, according to the Stoics, a living entity, a unit; and Virtue is a 
   διάθεσις ψυχῆς—a “permanent disposition of the soul.”
  8. The usual progression was αἴσθησις sensus( ), φαντασία (species, “external 
   impression”), συγκατάθεσις (adsensus), and κατάληψις (comprehensio). 
   See Ep. xcv. 62 note.
  9. This problem is discussed from another angle in Ep. lviii. 16.
10. i.e., the virtues.
11. Cleanthes, Frag. 525 von Arnim; Chrysippus, Frag. 836 von Arnim. The 
   former would seem to be more in accord with general Stoic views.
12. Caecilianum (the reading of the later MSS.) would refer to Statius 
   Caecilius, the comic writer of the second century B.C. Caelianum (B and 
   A) would indicate M. Caelius Rufus, the orator and contemporary of 
   Cicero and Catullus.
13. 334-330 B.C.
14. See Ep. xciv. 63 f., and notes.
15. e.g., the execution of Parmenio in Media and the murder of Cleitus in 
   Samarkand.
                   LETTER 114
      On Style as a Mirror of Character
                       A

You have been asking me why, during certain periods, a degener-
ate style of speech comes to the fore, and how it is that men’s wits 
have gone downhill into certain vices—in such a way that exposi-
tion at one time has taken on a kind of puffed-up strength, and 
at another has become mincing and modulated like the music of 
a concert piece. You wonder why sometimes bold ideas—bolder 
than one could believe—have been held in favour, and why at 
other times one meets with phrases that are disconnected and full 
of innuendo, into which one must read more meaning than was 
intended to meet the ear. Or why there have been epochs which 
maintained the right to a shameless use of metaphor. For answer, 
here is a phrase which you are wont to notice in the popular 
speech—one which the Greeks have made into a proverb: “Man’s 
speech is just like his life.”[1]
  Exactly as each individual man’s actions seem to speak, so 
people’s style of speaking often reproduces the general character 
of the time, if the morale of the public has relaxed and has given 
itself over to effeminacy. Wantonness in speech is proof of public 
luxury, if it is popular and fashionable, and not confined to one 
or two individual instances.
  A man’s ability[2] cannot possibly be of one sort and his soul 
of another. If his soul be wholesome, well-ordered, serious, and 
178 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

restrained, his ability also is sound and sober. Conversely, when 
the one degenerates, the other is also contaminated. Do you not 
see that if a man’s soul has become sluggish, his limbs drag and 
his feet move indolently? If it is womanish, that one can detect 
the effeminacy by his very gait? That a keen and confident soul 
quickens the step? That madness in the soul, or anger (which 
resembles madness), hastens our bodily movements from walk-
ing to rushing?
  And how much more do you think that this affects one’s abil-
ity, which is entirely interwoven with the soul—being moulded.
  How Maecenas lived is too well-known for present comment. 
We know how he walked, how effeminate he was, and how he 
desired to display himself; also, how unwilling he was that his 
vices should escape notice. What, then? Does not the looseness of 
his speech match his ungirt attire?[3] Are his habits, his attendants, 
his house, his wife,[4] any less clearly marked than his words? He 
would have been a man of great powers, had he set himself to his 
task by a straight path, had he not shrunk from making himself 
understood, had he not been so loose in his style of speech also. 
You will therefore see that his eloquence was that of an intoxicated 
man—twisting, turning, unlimited in its slackness.
  What is more unbecoming than the words:[5] “A stream and 
a bank covered with long-tressed woods”? And see how “men 
plough the channel with boats and, turning up the shallows, leave 
gardens behind them.” Or, “He curls his lady-locks, and bills and 
coos, and starts a-sighing, like a forest lord who offers prayers 
with down-bent neck.” Or, “An unregenerate crew, they search 
out people at feasts, and assail households with the wine-cup, and, 
by hope, exact death.” Or, “A Genius could hardly bear witness to 
his own festival”; or “threads of tiny tapers and crackling meal”; 
“mothers or wives clothing the hearth.”
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 179

  Can you not at once imagine, on reading through these words, 
that this was the man who always paraded through the city with a 
flowing[6] tunic? For even if he was discharging the absent emper-
or’s duties, he was always in undress when they asked him for the 
countersign. Or that this was the man who, as judge on the bench, 
or as an orator, or at any public function, appeared with his cloak 
wrapped about his head, leaving only the ears exposed,[7] like the 
millionaire’s runaway slaves in the farce? Or that this was the 
man who, at the very time when the state was embroiled in civil 
strife, when the city was in difficulties and under martial law, was 
attended in public by two eunuchs—both of them more men than 
himself? Or that this was the man who had but one wife, and yet 
was married countless times?[8]
  These words of his, put together so faultily, thrown off so care-
lessly, and arranged in such marked contrast to the usual practice, 
declare that the character of their writer was equally unusual, 
unsound, and eccentric. To be sure, we bestow upon him the 
highest praise for his humanity; he was sparing with the sword 
and refrained from bloodshed;[9] and he made a show of his power 
only in the course of his loose living; but he spoiled, by such 
preposterous finickiness of style, this genuine praise, which was 
his due.
  For it is evident that he was not really gentle, but effeminate, as 
is proved by his misleading word-order, his inverted expressions, 
and the surprising thoughts which frequently contain something 
great, but in finding expression have become nerveless. One 
would say that his head was turned by too great success.
  This fault is due sometimes to the man, and sometimes to his 
epoch.
  When prosperity has spread luxury far and wide, men begin 
by paying closer attention to their personal appearance. Then 
they go crazy over furniture. Next, they devote attention to their 
180 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

houses—how to take up more space with them, as if they were 
country-houses, how to make the walls glitter with marble that 
has been imported over seas, how to adorn a roof with gold, so 
that it may match the brightness of the inlaid floors. After that, 
they transfer their exquisite taste to the dinner-table, attempting 
to court approval by novelty and by departures from the custom-
ary order of dishes, so that the courses which we are accustomed 
to serve at the end of the meal may be served first, and so that the 
departing guests may partake of the kind of food which in former 
days was set before them on their arrival.
  When the mind has acquired the habit of scorning the usual 
things of life, and regarding as mean that which was once custom-
ary, it begins to hunt for novelties in speech also; now it summons 
and displays obsolete and old-fashioned words; now it coins even 
unknown words or misshapes them; and now a bold and frequent 
metaphorical usage is made a special feature of style, according 
to the fashion which has just become prevalent.
  Some cut the thoughts short, hoping to make a good impres-
sion by leaving the meaning in doubt and causing the hearer to 
suspect his own lack of wit. Some dwell upon them and lengthen 
them out. Others, too, approach just short of a fault—for a man 
must really do this if he hopes to attain an imposing effect—but 
actually love the fault for its own sake. In short, whenever you 
notice that a degenerate style pleases the critics, you may be sure 
that character also has deviated from the right standard.
  Just as luxurious banquets and elaborate dress are indications 
of disease in the state, similarly a lax style, if it be popular, shows 
that the mind (which is the source of the word) has lost its bal-
ance. Indeed you ought not to wonder that corrupt speech is 
welcomed not merely by the more squalid mob[10] but also by our 
more cultured throng; for it is only in their dress and not in their 
judgments that they differ.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 181

  You may rather wonder that not only the effects of vices, but 
even vices themselves, meet with approval. For it has ever been 
thus: no man’s ability has ever been approved without something 
being pardoned. Show me any man, however famous; I can tell 
you what it was that his age forgave in him, and what it was that 
his age purposely overlooked. I can show you many men whose 
vices have caused them no harm, and not a few who have been 
even helped by these vices. Yes, I will show you persons of the 
highest reputation, set up as models for our admiration; and yet 
if you seek to correct their errors, you destroy them; for vices 
are so intertwined with virtues that they drag the virtues along 
with them.
  Moreover, style has no fixed laws; it is changed by the usage of 
the people, never the same for any length of time. Many orators 
hark back to earlier epochs for their vocabulary, speaking in the 
language of the Twelve Tables.[11] Gracchus, Crassus, and Curio, 
in their eyes, are too refined and too modern; so back to Appius 
and Coruncanius![12] Conversely, certain men, in their endeavour 
to maintain nothing but well-worn and common usages, fall into 
a humdrum style.
  These two classes, each in its own way, are degenerate; and it is 
no less degenerate to use no words except those which are con-
spicuous, high-sounding, and poetical, avoiding what is familiar 
and in ordinary usage. One is, I believe, as faulty as the other: 
the one class are unreasonably elaborate, the other are unreason-
ably negligent; the former depilate the leg, the latter not even the 
armpit.[13]
  Let us now turn to the arrangement of words. In this depart-
ment, what countless varieties of fault I can show you! Some are 
all for abruptness and unevenness of style, purposely disarranging 
anything which seems to have a smooth flow of language. They 
would have jolts in all their transitions; they regard as strong and 
182 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

manly whatever makes an uneven impression on the ear. With 
some others it is not so much an “arrangement” of words as it is 
a setting to music; so wheedling and soft is their gliding style.
  And what shall I say of that arrangement in which words are 
put off and, after being long waited for, just manage to come in 
at the end of a period? Or again of that softly-concluding style, 
Cicero-fashion,[14] with a gradual and gently poised descent always 
the same and always with the customary arrangement of the 
rhythm! Nor is the fault only in the style of the sentences, if they 
are either petty and childish, or debasing, with more daring than 
modesty should allow, or if they are flowery and cloying, or if they 
end in emptiness, accomplishing mere sound and nothing more.
  Some individual makes these vices fashionable—some person 
who controls the eloquence of the day; the rest follow his lead and 
communicate the habit to each other. Thus when Sallust[15] was in 
his glory, phrases were lopped off, words came to a close unex-
pectedly, and obscure conciseness was equivalent to elegance. L. 
Arruntius, a man of rare simplicity, author of a historical work on 
the Punic War, was a member and a strong supporter of the Sal-
lust school. There is a phrase in Sallust: exercitum argento fecit,[16] 
meaning thereby that he recruited [17] an army by means of money. 
Arruntius began to like this idea; he therefore inserted the verb 
facio all through his book. Hence, in one passage, fugam nostris 
fecere;[18] in another, Hiero, rex Syracusanorum, bellum fecit;[18] 
and in another, quae audita Panhormitanos dedere Romanis 
fecere.[18]
  I merely desired to give you a taste; his whole book is interwo-
ven with such stuff as this. What Sallust reserved for occasional 
use, Arruntius makes into a frequent and almost continual habit—
and there was a reason: for Sallust used the words as they occurred 
to his mind, while the other writer went afield in search of them. 
So you see the results of copying another man’s vices.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 183

  Again, Sallust said: aquis hiemantibus.[19] Arruntius, in his first 
book on the Punic War, uses the words: repente hiemavit tem-
pestas.[19] And elsewhere, wishing to describe an exceptionally 
cold year, he says: totus hiemavit annus.[19] And in another pas-
sage: inde sexaginta onerarias leves praeter militem et necessarios 
nautarum hiemante aquilone misit;[19] and he continues to bolster 
many passages with this metaphor. In a certain place, Sallust gives 
the words: inter arma civilia aequi bonique famas [20] petit; and 
Arruntius cannot restrain himself from mentioning at once, in 
the first book, that there were extensive “reminders” concerning 
Regulus.
  These and similar faults, which imitation stamps upon one’s 
style, are not necessarily indications of loose standards or of 
debased mind; for they are bound to be personal and peculiar to 
the writer, enabling one to judge thereby of a particular author’s 
temperament; just as an angry man will talk in an angry way, an 
excitable man in a flurried way, and an effeminate man in a style 
that is soft and unresisting.
  You note this tendency in those who pluck out, or thin out, 
their beards, or who closely shear and shave the upper lip while 
preserving the rest of the hair and allowing it to grow, or in those 
who wear cloaks of outlandish colours, who wear transparent 
togas, and who never deign to do anything which will escape 
general notice; they endeavour to excite and attract men’s atten-
tion, and they put up even with censure, provided that they can 
advertise themselves. That is the style of Maecenas and all the 
others who stray from the path, not by hazard, but consciously 
and voluntarily.
  This is the result of great evil in the soul. As in the case of drink, 
the tongue does not trip until the mind is overcome beneath its 
load and gives way or betrays itself; so that intoxication of style—
for what else than this can I call it?—never gives trouble to anyone 
184 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

unless the soul begins to totter. Therefore, I say, take care of the 
soul; for from the soul issue our thoughts, from the soul our 
words, from the soul our dispositions, our expressions, and our 
very gait. When the soul is sound and strong, the style too is 
vigorous, energetic, manly; but if the soul lose its balance, down 
comes all the rest in ruins.

     If but the king be safe, your swarm will live

     Harmonious; if he die, the bees revolt.[21]

  The soul is our king. If it be safe, the other functions remain on 
duty and serve with obedience; but the slightest lack of equilib-
rium in the soul causes them to waver along with it. And when the 
soul has yielded to pleasure, its functions and actions grow weak, 
and any undertaking comes from a nerveless and unsteady source.
  To persist in my use of this simile—our soul is at one time a 
king, at another a tyrant. The king, in that he respects things hon-
ourable, watches over the welfare of the body which is entrusted 
to his charge, and gives that body no base, no ignoble commands. 
But an uncontrolled, passionate, and effeminate soul changes 
kingship into that most dread and detestable quality—tyranny; 
then it becomes a prey to the uncontrolled emotions, which dog 
its steps, elated at first, to be sure, like a populace idly sated with 
a largess which will ultimately be its undoing, and spoiling what 
it cannot consume.
  But when the disease has gradually eaten away the strength, 
and luxurious habits have penetrated the marrow and the sin-
ews, such a soul exults at the sight of limbs which, through its 
overindulgence, it has made useless; instead of its own pleasures, 
it views those of others; it becomes the go-between and witness 
of the passions which, as the result of self-gratification, it can no 
longer feel. Abundance of delights is not so pleasing a thing to 
that soul as it is bitter, because it cannot send all the dainties of 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 185

yore down through the over-worked throat and stomach, because 
it can no longer whirl in the maze of eunuchs and mistresses, and 
it is melancholy because a great part of its happiness is shut off, 
through the limitations of the body.
  Now is it not madness, Lucilius, for none of us to reflect that 
he is mortal? Or frail? Or again that he is but one individual? 
Look at our kitchens, and the cooks, who bustle about over so 
many fires; is it, think you, for a single belly that all this bustle 
and preparation of food takes place? Look at the old brands of 
wine and store-houses filled with the vintages of many ages; is it, 
think you, a single belly that is to receive the stored wine, sealed 
with the names of so many consuls, and gathered from so many 
vineyards? Look, and mark in how many regions men plough 
the earth, and how many thousands of farmers are tilling and 
digging; is it, think you, for a single belly that crops are planted 
in Sicily and Africa?
  We should be sensible, and our wants more reasonable, if each 
of us were to take stock of himself, and to measure his bodily 
needs also, and understand how little he can consume, and for 
how short a time! But nothing will give you so much help toward 
moderation as the frequent thought that life is short and uncer-
tain here below; whatever you are doing, have regard to death. 
Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. οῖος ὁ βίος, τοιοῦτος καὶ ὁ λόγος. The saying is referred to Socrates by 
  Cicero (Tusc. v. 47).
  2. i.e., that inborn quality which is compounded of character and 
  intelligence.
  3. Cf. Suetonius, Aug. 86, where the Emperor Maecenatem suum, cuius 
  “myrobrechis,” ut ait, “cincinnos” (“unguent-dripping curls” (Rolfe)) usque 
  quaque persequitur et imitando per iocum irridet. Augustus here refers 
  especially to the style of Maecenas as a writer.
  4. Terentia. For her charms see Horace, Od. ii. 12; for her faults see De prov. 
  iii. 10, where Seneca calls her “petulant.”
  5. Maecenas, Frag. 11 Lunderstedt.
186   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  6. Instead of properly girt up—a mark of slackness.
  7. For a similar mark of slovenliness, in Pompey’s freedman Demetrius, see 
   Plutarch, Pompey, xl. 4.
  8. i.e., often repulsed by his wife Terentia, and then restored to grace.
  9. e.g., in the Treaty of Brundisium (37 B.C.), and often during the 
   Triumvirate.
10. i.e., the “ring” of onlookers, the “pit.”
11. Fifth century B.C.
12. i.e., from the second and first centuries B.C., back to the third century.
13. The latter a reasonable mark of good breeding, the former an ostentatious 
   bit of effeminacy. Summers cites Ovid, A. A. i. 506 “don’t rub your legs 
   smooth with the tight-scraping pumice stone.”
14. As Cicero (see Ep. xl. 11) was an example of the rhythmical in style, so 
   Pollio is the representative of the “bumpy” (salebrosa) manner (Ep. c. 7).
15. Flor. 40 B.C.
16. For these Sallust fragments see the edition of Kritz, Nos. 33, Jug. 37. 4, and 
   42; for Arruntius see H. Peter, Frag. Hist. Rom. ii. pp. 41 f.
17. Literally, “created,” “made.”
18. “Brought to pass flight for our men”; “Hiero, king of the Syracusans 
   brought about war”; “The news brought the men of Panormus” (now 
   Palermo, Sicily) “to the point of surrendering to the Romans.”
19. “Amid the wintry waters”; “The storm suddenly grew wintry”; “The 
   whole year was like winter”; “Then he dispatched sixty transports of light 
   draught besides the soldiers and the necessary sailors amid a wintry 
   s t or m .”
20. The peculiarity here is the use of the plural instead of the singular form. 
   “Amid civil war he seeks reminders of justice and virtue.”
21. Vergil, Georg. iv. 212 f.
                   LETTER 115
          On the Superficial Blessings
                       A

I wish, my dear Lucilius, that you would not be too particular 
with regard to words and their arrangement; I have greater mat-
ters than these to commend to your care. You should seek what 
to write, rather than how to write it—and even that not for the 
purpose of writing but of feeling it, that you may thus make what 
you have felt more your own and, as it were, set a seal on it.
  Whenever you notice a style that is too careful and too pol-
ished, you may be sure that the mind also is no less absorbed in 
petty things. The really great man speaks informally and easily; 
whatever he says, he speaks with assurance rather than with pains.
  You are familiar with the young dandies,[1] natty as to their 
beards and locks, fresh from the bandbox; you can never expect 
from them any strength or any soundness. Style is the garb of 
thought: if it be trimmed, or dyed, or treated, it shows that there 
are defects and a certain amount of flaws in the mind. Elaborate 
elegance is not a manly garb.
  If we had the privilege of looking into a good man’s soul, oh 
what a fair, holy, magnificent, gracious, and shining face should 
we behold—radiant on the one side with justice and temperance, 
on another with bravery and wisdom! And, besides these, thrifti-
ness, moderation, endurance, refinement, affability, and—though 
hard to believe—love of one’s fellow-men, that Good which is so 
188 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

rare in man, all these would be shedding their own glory over that 
soul. There, too, forethought combined with elegance and, result-
ing from these, a most excellent greatness of soul (the noblest 
of all these virtues)—indeed what charm, O ye heavens, what 
authority and dignity would they contribute! What a wonderful 
combination of sweetness and power! No one could call such a 
face lovable without also calling it worshipful.
  If one might behold such a face, more exalted and more radiant 
than the mortal eye is wont to behold, would not one pause as if 
struck dumb by a visitation from above, and utter a silent prayer, 
saying: “May it be lawful to have looked upon it!”? And then, led 
on by the encouraging kindliness of his expression, should we not 
bow down and worship? Should we not, after much contempla-
tion of a far superior countenance, surpassing those which we are 
wont to look upon, mild-eyed and yet flashing with life-giving 
fire—should we not then, I say, in reverence and awe, give utter-
ance to those famous lines of our poet Vergil:

     O maiden, words are weak! Thy face is more

     Than mortal, and thy voice rings sweeter far
     Than mortal man’s; . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     Blest be thou; and, whoe’er thou art, relieve
     Our heavy burdens.[2]

  And such a vision will indeed be a present help and relief to us, 
if we are willing to worship it. But this worship does not consist 
in slaughtering fattened bulls, or in hanging up offerings of gold 
or silver, or in pouring coins into a temple treasury; rather does 
it consist in a will that is reverent and upright.
  There is none of us, I declare to you, who would not burn 
with love for this vision of virtue, if only he had the privilege 
of beholding it; for now there are many things that cut off our 
vision, piercing it with too strong a light, or clogging it with too 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 189

much darkness. If, however, as certain drugs are wont to be used 
for sharpening and clearing the eyesight, we are likewise willing 
to free our mind’s eye from hindrances, we shall then be able to 
perceive virtue, though it be buried in the body—even though 
poverty stand in the way, and even though lowliness and disgrace 
block the path. We shall then, I say, behold that true beauty, no 
matter if it be smothered by unloveliness.
  Conversely, we shall get a view of evil and the deadening 
influences of a sorrow-laden soul—in spite of the hindrance that 
results from the widespread gleam of riches that flash round 
about, and in spite of the false light—of official position on the 
one side or great power on the other—which beats pitilessly upon 
the beholder.
  Then it will be in our power to understand how contemptible 
are the things we admire—like children who regard every toy as 
a thing of value, who cherish necklaces bought at the price of a 
mere penny as more dear than their parents or than their broth-
ers. And what, then, as Aristo says,[3] is the difference between 
ourselves and these children, except that we elders go crazy over 
paintings and sculpture, and that our folly costs us dearer? Chil-
dren are pleased by the smooth and variegated pebbles which 
they pick up on the beach, while we take delight in tall columns 
of veined marble brought either from Egyptian sands or from 
African deserts to hold up a colonnade or a dining-hall large 
enough to contain a city crowd; we admire walls veneered with a 
thin layer of marble, although we know the while what defects the 
marble conceals. We cheat our own eyesight, and when we have 
overlaid our ceilings with gold, what else is it but a lie in which 
we take such delight? For we know that beneath all this gilding 
there lurks some ugly wood.
  Nor is such superficial decoration spread merely over walls and 
ceilings; nay, all the famous men whom you see strutting about 
190 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

with head in air, have nothing but a gold-leaf prosperity. Look 
beneath, and you will know how much evil lies under that thin 
coating of titles.
  Note that very commodity which holds the attention of so 
many magistrates and so many judges, and which creates both 
magistrates and judges—that money, I say, which ever since it 
began to be regarded with respect, has caused the ruin of the true 
honour of things; we become alternately merchants and mer-
chandise, and we ask, not what a thing truly is, but what it costs; 
we fulfil duties if it pays, or neglect them if it pays, and we follow 
an honourable course as long as it encourages our expectations, 
ready to veer across to the opposite course if crooked conduct 
shall promise more. 
  Our parents have instilled into us a respect for gold and sil-
ver; in our early years the craving has been implanted, settling 
deep within us and growing with our growth. Then too the whole 
nation, though at odds on every other subject, agrees upon this; 
this is what they regard, this is what they ask for their children, 
this is what they dedicate to the gods when they wish to show 
their gratitude—as if it were the greatest of all man’s possessions! 
And finally, public opinion has come to such a pass that poverty 
is a hissing and a reproach, despised by the rich and loathed by 
the poor.
  Verses of poets also are added to the account—verses which 
lend fuel to our passions, verses in which wealth is praised as if 
it were the only credit and glory of mortal man. People seem to 
think that the immortal gods cannot give any better gift than 
wealth—or even possess anything better:

     The Sun-god’s palace, set with pillars tall,

     And flashing bright with gold.[4]
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 191

  Or they describe the chariot of the Sun:[5]

     Gold was the axle, golden eke the pole,

     And gold the tires that bound the circling wheels,
     And silver all the spokes within the wheels.

  And finally, when they would praise an epoch as the best, they 
call it the “Golden Age.”
  Even among the Greek tragic poets there are some who regard 
pelf as better than purity, soundness, or good report:

     Call me a scoundrel, only call me rich!

     All ask how great my riches are, but none
     Whether my soul is good.

     None asks the means or source of your estate,
     But merely how it totals.

     All men are worth as much as what they own.

     What is most shameful for us to possess?
     Nothing!

     If riches bless me, I should love to live;
     Yet I would rather die, if poor.

     A man dies nobly in pursuit of wealth.[6]

     Money, that blessing to the race of man,
     Cannot be matched by mother’s love, or lisp
     Of children, or the honour due one’s sire.
     And if the sweetness of the lover’s glance
     Be half so charming, Love will rightly stir
     The hearts of gods and men to adoration.[7]
192 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  When these last-quoted lines were spoken at a performance of 
one of the tragedies of Euripides, the whole audience rose with 
one accord to hiss the actor and the play off the stage. But Eurip-
ides jumped to his feet, claimed a hearing, and asked them to 
wait for the conclusion and see the destiny that was in store for 
this man who gaped after gold. Bellerophon, in that particular 
drama, was to pay the penalty which is exacted of all men in the 
drama of life. 
  For one must pay the penalty for all greedy acts; although the 
greed is enough of a penalty in itself. What tears and toil does 
money wring from us! Greed is wretched in that which it craves 
and wretched in that which it wins! Think besides of the daily 
worry which afflicts every possessor in proportion to the measure 
of his gain! The possession of riches means even greater agony of 
spirit than the acquisition of riches. And how we sorrow over our 
losses—losses which fall heavily upon us, and yet seem still more 
heavy! And finally, though Fortune may leave our property intact, 
whatever we cannot gain in addition, is sheer loss!
  “But,” you will say to me, “people call yonder man happy and 
rich; they pray that some day they may equal him in possessions.” 
Very true. What, then? Do you think that there is any more piti-
able lot in life than to possess misery and hatred also? Would that 
those who are bound to crave wealth could compare notes with 
the rich man! Would that those who are bound to seek political 
office could confer with ambitious men who have reached the 
most sought-after honours! They would then surely alter their 
prayers, seeing that these grandees are always gaping after new 
gain, condemning what is already behind them. For there is no 
one in the world who is contented with his prosperity, even if it 
comes to him on the run. Men complain about their plans and 
the outcome of their plans; they always prefer what they have 
failed to win.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 193

  So philosophy can settle this problem for you, and afford you, 
to my mind, the greatest boon that exists—absence of regret for 
your own conduct. This is a sure happiness; no storm can ruffle 
it; but you cannot be steered safely through by any subtly woven 
words, or any gently flowing language. Let words proceed as they 
please, provided only your soul keeps its own sure order,[8] pro-
vided your soul is great and holds unruffled to its ideals, pleased 
with itself on account of the very things which displease others, 
a soul that makes life the test of its progress, and believes that its 
knowledge is in exact proportion to its freedom from desire and 
its freedom from fear. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Elsewhere (Epp. lxxvi. 2 and lxxxvii. 9) called trossuli, “fops.”
2. Aen. i. 327 ff.
3. Frag. 372 von Arnim.
4. Ovid, Metam. ii. 1 f.
5. Id. ib. ii. 107 ff.
6. Cf. Nauck, Trag. Gr. fragg. adesp. 181. 1 and 461.
7. Cf. id., Eurip. Danaë, Frag. 324, and Hense’s note (ed. of 1914, p. 559).
8. A play on the compositio of rhetoric.
           Chinese: Shen De Dao, Chan Jing Yi
English: The way of divine virtue, the stillness and ease of Zen.
       (Read vertically from top right to bottom left. 
            Each character is one word above.)

               Calligrapher: Mak Ming Chan
                   LETTER 116
                On Self-Control
                       A

The question has often been raised whether it is better to have 
moderate emotions, or none at all.[1] Philosophers of our school 
reject the emotions; the Peripatetics keep them in check. I, how-
ever, do not understand how any half-way disease can be either 
wholesome or helpful. Do not fear; I am not robbing you of any 
privileges which you are unwilling to lose! I shall be kindly and 
indulgent towards the objects for which you strive—those which 
you hold to be necessary to our existence, or useful, or pleasant; I 
shall simply strip away the vice. For after I have issued my prohi-
bitions against the desires, I shall still allow you to wish that you 
may do the same things fearlessly and with greater accuracy of 
judgment, and to feel even the pleasures more than before; and 
how can these pleasures help coming more readily to your call, 
if you are their lord rather than their slave!
  “But,” you object, “it is natural for me to suffer when I am 
bereaved of a friend; grant some privileges to tears which have 
the right to flow! It is also natural to be affected by men’s opinions 
and to be cast down when they are unfavourable; so why should 
you not allow me such an honourable aversion to bad opinion?”
  There is no vice which lacks some plea; there is no vice that at 
the start is not modest and easily entreated; but afterwards the 
196 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

trouble spreads more widely. If you allow it to begin, you cannot 
make sure of its ceasing.
  Every emotion at the start is weak. Afterwards, it rouses itself 
and gains strength by progress; it is more easy to forestall it than 
to forgo it. Who does not admit that all the emotions flow as it 
were from a certain natural source? We are endowed by Nature 
with an interest in our own well-being; but this very interest, when 
overindulged, becomes a vice. Nature has intermingled pleasure 
with necessary things—not in order that we should seek pleasure, 
but in order that the addition of pleasure may make the indis-
pensable means of existence attractive to our eyes. Should it claim 
rights of its own, it is luxury.
  Let us therefore resist these faults when they are demanding 
entrance, because, as I have said, it is easier to deny them admit-
tance than to make them depart.
  And if you cry: “One should be allowed a certain amount of 
grieving, and a certain amount of fear.” I reply that the “certain 
amount” can be too long-drawn-out, and that it will refuse to stop 
short when you so desire. The wise man can safely control him-
self without becoming over-anxious; he can halt his tears and his 
pleasures at will; but in our case, because it is not easy to retrace 
our steps, it is best not to push ahead at all.
  I think that Panaetius[2] gave a very neat answer to a certain 
youth who asked him whether the wise man should become a 
lover: “As to the wise man, we shall see later; but you and I, who 
are as yet far removed from wisdom, should not trust ourselves 
to fall into a state that is disordered, uncontrolled, enslaved to 
another,[3] contemptible to itself. If our love be not spurned, we 
are excited by its kindness; if it be scorned, we are kindled by 
our pride. An easily won love hurts us as much as one which 
is difficult to win; we are captured by that which is compliant, 
and we struggle with that which is hard. Therefore, knowing our 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 197

weakness, let us remain quiet. Let us not expose this unstable 
spirit to the temptations of drink, or beauty, or flattery, or any-
thing that coaxes and allures.”
  Now that which Panaetius replied to the question about love 
may be applied, I believe, to all the emotions. In so far as we are 
able, let us step back from slippery places; even on dry ground it 
is hard enough to take a sturdy stand.
  At this point, I know, you will confront me with that common 
complaint against the Stoics: “Your promises are too great, and 
your counsels too hard. We are mere manikins, unable to deny 
ourselves everything. We shall sorrow, but not to any great extent; 
we shall feel desires, but in moderation; we shall give way to anger, 
but we shall be appeased.”
  And do you know why we have not the power to attain this 
Stoic ideal? It is because we refuse to believe in our power. Nay, of 
a surety, there is something else which plays a part: it is because 
we are in love with our vices; we uphold them and prefer to make 
excuses for them rather than shake them off. We mortals have 
been endowed with sufficient strength by nature, if only we use 
this strength, if only we concentrate our powers and rouse them 
all to help us or at least not to hinder us. The reason is unwilling-
ness, the excuse, inability. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. For a discussion of ἀπάθεια see Epp. ix. 2 ff. and lxxxv. 3 ff.
2. Frag. 56 Fowler.
3. Literally, “out of our possession” (from mancipium, “ownership”).
                   LETTER 117
         On Real Ethics as Superior to 
              Syllogistic Subtleties
                        A

You will be fabricating much trouble for me, and you will be 
unconsciously embroiling me in a great discussion, and in con-
siderable bother, if you put such petty questions as these; for in 
settling them I cannot disagree with my fellow-Stoics without 
impairing my standing among them, nor can I subscribe to such 
ideas without impairing my conscience. Your query is, whether 
the Stoic belief is true: that wisdom is a Good, but that being wise 
is not a Good.[1] I shall first set forth the Stoic view, and then I 
shall be bold enough to deliver my own opinion.
  We of the Stoic school believe that the Good is corporeal, 
because the Good is active, and whatever is active is corporeal. 
That which is good, is helpful. But, in order to be helpful, it must 
be active; so, if it is active, it is corporeal. They (the Stoics) declare 
that wisdom is a Good; it therefore follows that one must also call 
wisdom corporeal.
  But they do not think that being wise can be rated on the same 
basis. For it is incorporeal and accessory to something else, in 
other words, wisdom; hence it is in no respect active or helpful.
  “What, then?” is the reply; “Why do we not say that being wise 
is a Good?” We do say so; but only by referring it to that on which 
it depends—in other words, wisdom itself.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 199

  Let me tell you what answers other philosophers make to these 
objectors, before I myself begin to form my own creed and to take 
my place entirely on another side. “Judged in that light,” they say, 
“not even living happily is a Good. Willy nilly, such persons ought 
to reply that the happy life is a Good, but that living happily is 
not a Good.”
  And this objection is also raised against our school: “You wish 
to be wise. Therefore, being wise is a thing to be desired. And if 
it be a thing to be desired it is a Good.” So our philosophers are 
forced to twist their words and insert another syllable into the 
word “desired,”—a syllable which our language does not normally 
allow to be inserted. But, with your permission, I shall add it. 
“That which is good,” they say, “is a thing to be desired; the desir-
able[2] thing is that which falls to our lot after we have attained the 
Good. For the desirable is not sought as a Good; it is an accessory 
to the Good after the Good has been attained.”
  I myself do not hold the same view, and I judge that our phi-
losophers[3] have come down to this argument because they are 
already bound by the first link in the chain and for that reason 
may not alter their definition. People are wont to concede much 
to the things which all men take for granted; in our eyes the 
fact that all men agree upon something is a proof of its truth. 
For instance, we infer that the gods exist, for this reason, among 
others—that there is implanted in everyone an idea concerning 
deity, and there is no people so far beyond the reach of laws and 
customs that it does not believe at least in gods of some sort. And 
when we discuss the immortality of the soul, we are influenced in 
no small degree by the general opinion of mankind, who either 
fear or worship the spirits of the lower world. I make the most of 
this general belief: you can find no one who does not hold that 
wisdom is a Good, and being wise also.
200 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  I shall not appeal to the populace, like a conquered gladiator; 
let us come to close quarters, using our own weapons.
  When something affects a given object, is it outside the object 
which it affects, or is it inside the object it affects? If it is inside 
the object it affects, it is as corporeal as the object which it affects. 
For nothing can affect another object without touching it, and 
that which touches is corporeal. If it is outside, it withdraws after 
having affected the object. And withdrawal means motion. And 
that which possesses motion, is corporeal.
  You expect me, I suppose, to deny that “race” differs from “run-
ning,” that “heat” differs from “being hot,” that “light” differs from 
“giving light.” I grant that these pairs vary, but hold that they are 
not in separate classes. If good health is an indifferent[4] quality, 
then so is being in good health; if beauty is an indifferent quality, 
then so is being beautiful. If justice is a Good, then so is being 
just. And if baseness is an evil, then it is an evil to be base—just 
as much as, if sore eyes are an evil, the state of having sore eyes is 
also an evil. Neither quality, you may be sure, can exist without 
the other. He who is wise is a man of wisdom; he who is a man 
of wisdom is wise. So true it is that we cannot doubt the quality 
of the one to equal the quality of the other, that they are both 
regarded by certain persons as one and the same.
  Here is a question, however, which I should be glad to put: 
granted that all things are either good or bad or indifferent—in 
what class does being wise belong? People deny that it is a Good; 
and, as it obviously is not an evil, it must consequently be one of 
the “media.” But we mean by the “medium,” or the “indifferent” 
quality that which can fall to the lot of the bad no less than to the 
good—such things as money, beauty, or high social position. But 
the quality of being wise can fall to the lot of the good man alone; 
therefore being wise is not an indifferent quality. Nor is it an evil, 
either; because it cannot fall to the lot of the bad man; therefore, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 201

it is a Good. That which the good man alone can possess, is a 
Good; now being wise is the possession of the good man only; 
therefore it is a Good.
  The objector replies: “It is only an accessory of wisdom.” Very 
well, then, I say, this quality which you call being wise—does it 
actively produce wisdom, or is it a passive concomitant of wis-
dom? It is corporeal in either case. For that which is acted upon 
and that which acts, are alike corporeal; and, if corporeal, each 
is a Good. The only quality which could prevent it from being a 
Good, would be incorporeality.
  The Peripatetics believe that there is no distinction between 
wisdom and being wise, since either of these implies the other 
also. Now do you suppose that any man can be wise except one 
who possesses wisdom? Or that anyone who is wise does not 
possess wisdom?
  The old masters of dialectic, however, distinguish between 
these two conceptions; and from them the classification has come 
right down to the Stoics. What sort of a classification this is, I 
shall explain: A field is one thing, and the possession of the field 
another thing; of course, because “possessing the field” refers to 
the possessor rather than to the field itself. Similarly, wisdom is 
one thing and being wise another. You will grant, I suppose, that 
these two are separate ideas—the possessed and the possessor: 
wisdom being that which one possesses, and he who is wise its 
possessor. Now wisdom is Mind perfected and developed to the 
highest and best degree. For it is the art of life. And what is being 
wise? I cannot call it “Mind Perfected,” but rather that which falls 
to the lot of him who possesses a “mind perfected”; thus a good 
mind is one thing, and the so-called possession of a good mind 
another.
  “There are,” it is said, “certain natural classes of bodies; we say: 
‘This is a man,’ ‘this is a horse.’ Then there attend on the bodily 
202 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

natures certain movements of the mind which declare something 
about the body. And these have a certain essential quality which 
is sundered from body; for example: ‘I see Cato walking.’ The 
senses indicate this, and the mind believes it. What I see, is body, 
and upon this I concentrate my eyes and my mind. Again, I say: 
‘Cato walks.’ What I say,” they continue, “is not body; it is a certain 
declarative fact concerning body—called variously an ‘utterance,’ 
a ‘declaration,’ a ‘statement.’ Thus, when we say ‘wisdom,’ we mean 
something pertaining to body; when we say ‘he is wise,’ we are 
speaking concerning body. And it makes considerable difference 
whether you mention the person directly, or speak concerning 
the person.”
  Supposing for the present that these are two separate concep-
tions (for I am not yet prepared to give my own opinion); what 
prevents the existence of still a third—which is none the less a 
Good? I remarked a little while ago that a “field” was one thing, 
and the “possession of a field” another; of course, for possessor 
and possessed are of different natures; the latter is the land, and 
the former is the man who owns the land. But with regard to the 
point now under discussion, both are of the same nature – the 
possessor of wisdom, and wisdom itself.
  Besides, in the one case that which is possessed is one thing, 
and he who possesses it is another; but in this case the possessed 
and the possessor come under the same category. The field is 
owned by virtue of law, wisdom by virtue of nature. The field can 
change hands and go into the ownership of another; but wisdom 
never departs from its owner. Accordingly, there is no reason why 
you should try to compare things that are so unlike one another. 
I had started to say that these can be two separate conceptions, 
and yet that both can be Goods—for instance, wisdom and the 
wise man being two separate things and yet granted by you to be 
equally good. And just as there is no objection to regarding both 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 203

wisdom and the possessor of wisdom as Goods, so there is no 
objection to regarding as a good both wisdom and the possession 
of wisdom—in other words, being wise.
  For I only wish to be a wise man in order to be wise. And what 
then? Is not that thing a Good without the possession of which a 
certain other thing cannot be a Good? You surely admit that wis-
dom, if given without the right to be used, is not to be welcomed! 
And wherein consists the use of wisdom? In being wise; that is its 
most valuable attribute; if you withdraw this, wisdom becomes 
superfluous. If processes of torture are evil, then being tortured 
is an evil—with this reservation, indeed, that if you take away the 
consequences, the former are not evil. Wisdom is a condition of 
“mind perfected,” and being wise is the employment of this “mind 
perfected.” How can the employment of that thing not be a Good, 
which without employment is not a Good?
  If I ask you whether wisdom is to be desired, you admit that 
it is. If I ask you whether the employment of wisdom is to be 
desired, you also admit the fact; for you say that you will not 
receive wisdom if you are not allowed to employ it. Now that 
which is to be desired is a Good. Being wise is the employment of 
wisdom, just as it is of eloquence to make a speech, or of the eyes 
to see things. Therefore,being  wise is the employment of wisdom, 
and the employment of wisdom is to be desired. Therefore being 
wise is a thing to be desired; and if it is a thing to be desired, it 
is a Good.
  Lo, these many years I have been condemning myself for imi-
tating these men at the very time when I am arraigning them, and 
of wasting words on a subject that is perfectly clear. For who can 
doubt that, if heat is an evil, it is also an evil to be hot? Or that, if 
cold is an evil, it is an evil to be cold? Or that, if life is a Good, so 
is being alive? All such matters are on the outskirts of wisdom, not 
in wisdom itself. But our abiding-place should be in wisdom itself.
204 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  Even though one takes a fancy to roam, wisdom has large and 
spacious retreats: we may investigate the nature of the gods, the 
fuel which feeds the constellations, or all the varied courses of 
the stars; we may speculate whether our affairs move in harmony 
with those of the stars, whether the impulse to motion comes 
from thence into the minds and bodies of all, and whether even 
these events which we call fortuitous are fettered by strict laws 
and nothing in this universe is unforeseen or unregulated in its 
revolutions. Such topics have nowadays been withdrawn from 
instruction in morals, but they uplift the mind and raise it to the 
dimensions of the subject which it discusses; the matters, how-
ever, of which I was speaking a while ago, wear away and wear 
down the mind, not (as you and yours[5] maintain) whetting, but 
weakening it.
  And I ask you, are we to fritter away that necessary study which 
we owe to greater and better themes, in discussing a matter which 
may perhaps be wrong and is certainly of no avail? How will it 
profit me to know whether wisdom is one thing, and being wise 
another? How will it profit me to know that the one is, and the 
other is not, a Good? Suppose I take a chance, and gamble on 
this prayer: “Wisdom for you, and being wise for me!” We shall 
come out even.
  Try rather to show me the way by which I may attain those 
ends.[6] Tell me what to avoid, what to seek, by what studies to 
strengthen my tottering mind, how I may rebuff the waves that 
strike me abeam and drive me from my course, by what means I 
may be able to cope with all my evils, and by what means I can be 
rid of the calamities that have plunged in upon me and those into 
which I myself have plunged. Teach me how to bear the burden of 
sorrow without a groan on my part, and how to bear prosperity 
without making others groan; also, how to avoid waiting for the 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 205

ultimate and inevitable end, and to beat a retreat of my own free 
will, when it seems proper to me to do so.
  I think nothing is baser than to pray for death. For if you wish 
to live, why do you pray for death? And if you do not wish to live, 
why do you ask the gods for that which they gave you at birth? 
For even as, against your will, it has been settled that you must 
die some day, so the time when you shall wish to die is in your 
own hands. The one fact is to you a necessity, the other a privilege.
  I read lately a most disgraceful doctrine, uttered (more shame 
to him!) by a learned gentleman: “So may I die as soon as pos-
sible!” Fool, thou art praying for something that is already thine 
own! “So may I die as soon as possible!” Perhaps thou didst grow 
old while uttering these very words! At any rate, what is there 
to hinder? No one detains thee; escape by whatsoever way thou 
wilt! Select any portion of Nature, and bid it provide thee with a 
means of departure! These, namely, are the elements, by which 
the world’s work is carried on—water, earth, air. All these are no 
more the causes of life than they are the ways of death.
  “So may I die as soon as possible!” And what is thy wish with 
regard to this “as soon as possible”? What day dost thou set for 
the event? It may be sooner than thy prayer requests. Words like 
this come from a weak mind, from one that courts pity by such 
cursing; he who prays for death does not wish to die. Ask the gods 
for life and health; if thou art resolved to die, death’s reward is to 
have done with prayers.
  It is with such problems as these, my dear Lucilius, that we 
should deal, by such problems that we should mould our minds. 
This is wisdom, this is whatbeing  wise means—not to bandy 
empty subtleties in idle and petty discussions. Fortune has set 
before you so many problems—which you have not yet solved—
and are you still splitting hairs? How foolish it is to practice 
strokes after you have heard the signal for the fight! Away with 
206 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

all these dummy-weapons; you need armour for a fight to the 
finish. Tell me by what means sadness and fear may be kept from 
disturbing my soul, by what means I may shift off this burden of 
hidden cravings. Do something!
  “Wisdom is a Good, but being wise is not a Good;” such talk 
results for us in the judgment that we are not wise, and in making 
a laughing-stock of this whole field of study—on the ground that 
it wastes its effort on useless things. Suppose you knew that this 
question was also debated: whether future wisdom is a Good? For, 
I beseech you, how could one doubt whether barns do not feel 
the weight of the harvest that is to come, and that boyhood does 
not have premonitions of approaching young manhood by any 
brawn and power? The sick person, in the intervening period, is 
not helped by the health that is to come, any more than a runner 
or a wrestler is refreshed by the period of repose that will follow 
many months later.
  Who does not know that what is yet to be is not a Good, for the 
very reason that it is yet to be? For that which is good is necessar-
ily helpful. And unless things are in the present, they cannot be 
helpful; and if a thing is not helpful, it is not a Good; if helpful, it 
is already. I shall be a wise man some day; and this Good will be 
mine when I shall be a wise man, but in the meantime it is non-
existent. A thing must exist first, then may be of a certain kind.
  How, I ask you, can that which is still nothing be already a 
Good? And in what better way do you wish it to be proved to 
you that a certain thing is not, than to say: “It is yet to be”? For it 
is clear that something which is on the way has not yet arrived. 
“Spring will follow”: I know that winter is here now. “Summer will 
follow:” I know that it is not summer. The best proof to my mind 
that a thing is not yet present is that it is yet to be.
  I hope some day to be wise, but meanwhile I am not wise. For if 
I possessed that Good, I should now be free from this Evil. Some 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 207

day I shall be wise; from this very fact you may understand that 
I am not yet wise. I cannot at the same time live in that state of 
Good and in this state of Evil; the two ideas do not harmonize, 
nor do Evil and Good exist together in the same person.
  Let us rush past all this clever nonsense, and hurry on to that 
which will bring us real assistance. No man who is anxiously run-
ning after a midwife for his daughter in her birth-pangs will stop 
to read the praetor’s edict[7] or the order of events at the games. No 
one who is speeding to save his burning house will scan a checker-
board[8] to speculate how the imprisoned piece can be freed.
  But good heavens!—In your case all sorts of news are 
announced on all sides—your house afire, your children in dan-
ger, your country in a state of siege, your property plundered. 
Add to this shipwreck, earthquakes, and all other objects of dread; 
harassed amid these troubles, are you taking time for matters 
which serve merely for mental entertainment? Do you ask what 
difference there is between wisdom and being wise? Do you tie 
and untie knots while such a ruin is hanging over your head?
  Nature has not given us such a generous and free-handed space 
of time that we can have the leisure to waste any of it. Mark also 
how much is lost even when men are very careful: people are 
robbed of one thing by ill-health and of another thing by illness in 
the family; at one time private, at another public, business absorbs 
the attention; and all the while sleep shares our lives with us.
  Out of this time, so short and swift, that carries us away in its 
flight, of what avail is it to spend the greater part on useless things?
  Besides, our minds are accustomed to entertain rather than to 
cure themselves, to make an aesthetic pleasure out of philosophy, 
when philosophy should really be a remedy. What the distinction 
is between wisdom and being wise I do not know; but I do know 
that it makes no difference to me whether I know such matters 
208   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

or am ignorant of them. Tell me: when I have found out the dif-
ference between wisdom and being wise, shall I be wise?
   Why then do you occupy me with the words rather than with 
the works of wisdom? Make me braver, make me calmer, make 
me the equal of Fortune, make me her superior. And I can be her 
superior, if I apply to this end everything that I learn. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. For this sort of discussion see Ep. cxiii. 1 ff.
2. This adjectiveexpetibilis  is found in Tacitus, Ann. xvi. 21, and in Boethius, 
  Cons. ii. 6.
3. i.e., the Stoics as mentioned above (with whom Seneca often disagrees on 
  minor details).
4. i.e., the external things; see Ep. xciii. 7 and note—defined more specifically 
  in § 9 below.
5. Presumably an allusion to the syllogistic enthusiasts rather than to Lucillius 
  and his like.
6. i.e., wisdom or being wise.
7. Cf. Ep. xlviii. 10 and note.
8. Cf. Ep. cvi. 11 and note.
                   LETTER 118
        On the Vanity of Place-Seeking
                       A

You have been demanding more frequent letters from me. But if 
we compare the accounts, you will not be on the credit side.[1] We 
had indeed made the agreement that your part came first, that you 
should write the first letters, and that I should answer. However, 
I shall not be disagreeable; I know that it is safe to trust you, so I 
shall pay in advance, and yet not do as the eloquent Cicero bids 
Atticus do:[2] “Even if you have nothing to say, write whatever 
enters your head.”
  For there will always be something for me to write about, even 
omitting all the kinds of news with which Cicero fills his cor-
respondence: what candidate is in difficulties, who is striving on 
borrowed resources and who on his own; who is a candidate for 
the consulship relying on Caesar, or on Pompey, or on his own 
strong-box; what a merciless usurer is Caecilius,[3] out of whom 
his friends cannot screw a penny for less than one per cent each 
month.
  But it is preferable to deal with one’s own ills, rather than with 
another’s—to sift oneself and see for how many vain things one 
is a candidate, and cast a vote for none of them.
  his, my dear Lucilius, is a noble thing, this brings peace and 
freedom—to canvass for nothing, and to pass by all the elections 
of Fortune. How can you call it enjoyable, when the tribes are 
210 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

called together and the candidates are making offerings in their 
favourite temples—some of them promising money gifts and oth-
ers doing business by means of an agent, or wearing down their 
hands with the kisses of those to whom they will refuse the least 
finger-touch after being elected—when all are excitedly awaiting 
the announcement of the herald, do you call it enjoyable, I say, 
to stand idle and look on at this Vanity Fair without either buy-
ing or selling?
  How much greater joy does one feel who looks without con-
cern, not merely upon the election of a praetor or of a consul, but 
upon that great struggle in which some are seeking yearly hon-
ours, and others permanent power, and others the triumph and 
the prosperous outcome of war, and others riches, or marriage and 
offspring, or the welfare of themselves and their relatives! What a 
great-souled action it is to be the only person who is canvassing 
for nothing, offering prayers to no man, and saying: “Fortune, I 
have nothing to do with you. I am not at your service. I know that 
men like Cato are spurned by you, and men like Vatinius made 
by you.[4] I ask no favours.” This is the way to reduce Fortune to 
the ranks.
  These, then, are the things about which we may write in turn, 
and this is the ever fresh material which we may dig out as we scan 
the restless multitudes of men, who, in order to attain something 
ruinous, struggle on through evil to evil, and seek that which they 
must presently shun or even find surfeiting.
  For who was ever satisfied, after attainment, with that which 
loomed up large as he prayed for it? Happiness is not, as men 
think, a greedy thing; it is a lowly thing; for that reason it never 
gluts a man’s desire. You deem lofty the objects you seek, because 
you are on a low level and hence far away from them; but they 
are mean in the sight of him who has reached them. And I am 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 211

very much mistaken if he does not desire to climb still higher; 
that which you regard as the top is merely a rung on the ladder.
  Now all men suffer from ignorance of the truth; deceived by 
common report, they make for these ends as if they were good, 
and then, after having won their wish, and suffered much, they 
find them evil, or empty, or less important than they had expected. 
Most men admire that which deceives them at a distance, and by 
the crowd good things are supposed to be big things.
  Now, lest this happen also in our own case, let us ask what is 
the Good. It has been explained in various ways; different men 
have described it in different ways. Some define it in this way. 
“That which attracts and calls the spirit to itself is a Good.” But the 
objection at once comes up—what if it does attract, but straight 
to ruin? You know how seductive many evils are. That which is 
true differs from that which looks like the truth; hence the Good 
is connected with the true, for it is not good unless it is also true. 
But that which attracts and allures, is only like the truth; it steals 
your attention, demands your interest, and draws you to itself.
  Therefore, some have given this definition: “That is good which 
inspires desire for itself, or rouses towards itself the impulse of a 
struggling soul.” There is the same objection to this idea; for many 
things rouse the soul’s impulses, and yet the search for them is 
harmful to the seeker. The following definition is better: “That is 
good which rouses the soul’s impulse towards itself in accordance 
with nature, and is worth seeking only when it begins to be thor-
oughly worth seeking.” It is by this time an honourable thing; for 
that is a thing completely worth seeking.
  The present topic suggests that I state the difference between 
the Good and the honourable.[5] Now they have a certain quality 
which blends with both and is inseparable from either: nothing 
can be good unless it contains an element of the honourable, and 
the honourable is necessarily good. What, then, is the difference 
212 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

between these two qualities? The honourable is the perfect Good, 
and the happy life is fulfilled thereby; through its influence other 
things also are rendered good.
  I mean something like this: there are certain things which are 
neither good nor bad—as military or diplomatic service, or the 
pronouncing of legal decisions. When such pursuits have been 
honourably conducted, they begin to be good, and they change 
over from the “indifferent” class into the Good. The Good results 
from partnership with the honourable, but the honourable is good 
in itself. The Good springs from the honourable, but the latter 
from itself. What is good might have been bad; what is honour-
able could never have been anything but good.
  Some have defined as follows: “That is good which is according 
to nature.” Now attend to my own statement: that which is good 
is according to nature, but that which is according to nature does 
not also become immediately good; for many things harmonize 
with nature, but are so petty that it is not suitable to call them 
good. For they are unimportant and deserve to be despised. But 
there is no such thing as a very small and despicable good, for, as 
long as it is scanty, it is not good, and when it begins to be good, 
it ceases to be scanty. How, then, can the Good be recognized? 
Only if it is completely according to nature.
  People say: “You admit that that which is good is according to 
nature; for this is its peculiar quality. You admit, too, that there are 
other things according to nature, which, however, are not good. 
How then can the former be good, and the latter not? How can 
there be an alteration in the peculiar quality of a thing, when each 
has, in common with the other, the special attribute of being in 
accord with nature?”
  Surely because of its magnitude. It is no new idea that certain 
objects change as they grow. A person, once a child, becomes a 
youth; his peculiar quality is transformed; for the child could not 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 213

reason, but the youth possesses reason. Certain things not only 
grow in size as they develop, but grow into something else.
  Some reply: “But that which becomes greater does not neces-
sarily become different. It matters not at all whether you pour 
wine into a flask or into a vat; the wine keeps its peculiar quality 
in both vessels. Small and large quantities of honey are not dis-
tinct in taste.” But these are different cases which you mention; 
for wine and honey have a uniform quality; no matter how much 
the quantity is enlarged, the quality is the same.
  For some things endure according to their kind and their pecu-
liar qualities, even when they are enlarged.
  There are others, however, which, after many increments, are 
altered by the last addition; there is stamped upon them a new 
character, different from that of yore. One stone makes an arch-
way—the stone which wedges the leaning sides and holds the 
arch together by its position in the middle. And why does the last 
addition, although very slight, make a great deal of difference? 
Because it does not increase; it fills up.
  Some things, through development, put off their former shape 
and are altered into a new figure.[6] When the mind has for a 
long time developed some idea, and in the attempt to grasp its 
magnitude has become weary, that thing begins to be called “infi-
nite.” And then this has become something far different from 
what it was when it seemed great but finite. In the same way 
we have thought of something as difficult to divide; at the very 
end, as the task grows more and more hard, the thing is found 
to be “indivisible.” Similarly, from that which could scarcely or 
with difficulty be moved we have advanced on and on—until we 
reach the “immovable.” By the same reasoning a certain thing was 
214   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

according to nature; its greatness has altered it into some other 
peculiar quality and has rendered it a Good. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., solvendo aeri alieno, “in a position to pay one’s debts.”
2. Ad Att. i. 12. 4.
3. Ad  Att. i. 12. 1: “Even his relatives can’t screw a penny out of Caecilius at 
  less than 12 per cent” (Winstedt).
4. For the character of Vatinius see Ep. xciv. 25 note; for a similar comparison 
  of V. with Cato see Ep. cxx. 19.
5. Discussed in Ep. lxxi. 4 f., lxxiv. 30, lxxvi. 16 ff., and especially lxxxvii. 25: 
  nam idem est honestum et bonum. The Academic school tended to draw 
  more of a distinction than the Stoic, as in Ep. lxxxv. 17 f.
6. This argument (that complete virtue is a sort of transforming climax of 
  life) is not to be confused with the theory of accessio (a term used also in 
  Roman law), or “addition”; for virtue does not permit of accessio, or the 
  addition of any external advantage. See Ep. lxvi. 9 quid accedere perfecto 
  potest?
                   LETTER 119
       On Nature as Our Best Provider
                       A

Whenever I have made a discovery, I do not wait for you to cry 
“Shares!” I say it to myself in your behalf. If you wish to know 
what it is that I have found, open your pocket; it is clear profit.[1] 
What I shall teach you is the ability to become rich as speedily as 
possible. How keen you are to hear the news! And rightly; I shall 
lead you by a short cut to the greatest riches. It will be necessary, 
however, for you to find a loan; in order to be able to do business, 
you must contract a debt, although I do not wish you to arrange 
the loan through a middle-man, nor do I wish the brokers to be 
discussing your rating.
  I shall furnish you with a ready creditor, Cato’s famous one, 
who says:[2] “Borrow from yourself!” No matter how small it is, it 
will be enough if we can only make up the deficit from our own 
resources. For, my dear Lucilius, it does not matter whether you 
crave nothing, or whether you possess something. The important 
principle in either case is the same—freedom from worry.
  But I do not counsel you to deny anything to nature—for nature 
is insistent and cannot be overcome; she demands her due—but 
you should know that anything in excess of nature’s wants is a 
mere “extra”[3] and is not necessary.
  If I am hungry, I must eat. Nature does not care whether the 
bread is the coarse kind or the finest wheat; she does not desire 
216 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

the stomach to be entertained, but to be filled. And if I am thirsty, 
Nature does not care whether I drink water from the nearest res-
ervoir, or whether I freeze it artificially by sinking it in large quan-
tities of snow. Nature orders only that the thirst be quenched; and 
it does not matter whether it be a golden, or crystal, or murrine 
goblet, or a cup from Tibur,[4] or the hollow hand.
  Look to the end, in all matters, and then you will cast away 
superfluous things. Hunger calls me; let me stretch forth my hand 
to that which is nearest; my very hunger has made attractive in 
my eyes whatever I can grasp. A starving man despises nothing.
  Do you ask, then, what it is that has pleased me? It is this noble 
saying which I have discovered: “The wise man is the keenest 
seeker for the riches of nature.” “What”, you ask, “will you pres-
ent me with an empty plate? What do you mean? I had already 
arranged my coffers;[5] I was already looking about to see some 
stretch of water on which I might embark for purposes of trade, 
some state revenues that I might handle, and some merchandise 
that I might acquire. That is deceit—showing me poverty after 
promising me riches.” But, friend, do you regard a man as poor 
to whom nothing is wanting? “It is, however,” you reply, “thanks 
to himself and his endurance, and not thanks to his fortune.” 
Do you, then, hold that such a man is not rich, just because his 
wealth can never fail?
  Would you rather have much, or enough? He who has much 
desires more—a proof that he has not yet acquired enough; but 
he who has enough has attained that which never fell to the rich 
man’s lot—a stopping-point. Do you think that this condition 
to which I refer is not riches, just because no man has ever been 
proscribed as a result of possessing them? Or because sons and 
wives have never thrust poison down one’s throat for that reason? 
Or because in war-time these riches are unmolested? Or because 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 217

they bring leisure in time of peace? Or because it is not dangerous 
to possess them, or troublesome to invest them?
  “But one possesses too little, if one is merely free from cold 
and hunger and thirst.” Jupiter himself however, is no better off. 
Enough is never too little, and not-enough is never too much. 
Alexander was poor even after his conquest of Darius and the 
Indies. Am I wrong? He seeks something which he can really 
make his own, exploring unknown seas, sending new fleets over 
the Ocean, and, so to speak, breaking down the very bars of the 
universe. But that which is enough for nature, is not enough for 
man.
  There have been found persons who crave something more 
after obtaining everything; so blind are their wits and so readily 
does each man forget his start after he has got under way. He 
who[6] was but lately the disputed lord of an unknown corner of 
the world, is dejected when, after reaching the limits of the globe, 
he must march back through a world which he has made his own.
  Money never made a man rich; on the contrary, it always smites 
men with a greater craving for itself. Do you ask the reason for 
this? He who possesses more begins to be able to possess still 
more.
  To sum up, you may hale forth for our inspection any of 
the millionaires whose names are told off when one speaks of 
Crassus and Licinus. Let him bring along his rating and his pres-
ent property and his future expectations, and let him add them all 
together: such a man, according to my belief, is poor; according 
to yours, he may be poor some day.
  He, however, who has arranged his affairs according to nature’s 
demands, is free from the fear, as well as from the sensation, of 
poverty. And in order that you may know how hard it is to nar-
row one’s interests down to the limits of nature—even this very 
218 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

person of whom we speak, and whom you call poor, possesses 
something actually superfluous.
  Wealth, however, blinds and attracts the mob, when they see a 
large bulk of ready money brought out of a man’s house, or even 
his walls crusted with abundance of gold, or a retinue that is 
chosen for beauty of physique, or for attractiveness of attire. The 
prosperity of all these men looks to public opinion; but the ideal 
man, whom we have snatched from the control of the people and 
of Fortune, is happy inwardly.
  For as far as those persons are concerned, in whose minds 
bustling[7] poverty has wrongly stolen the title of riches—these 
individuals have riches just as we say that we “have a fever,” when 
really the fever has us. Conversely, we are accustomed to say: “A 
fever grips him.” And in the same way we should say: “Riches grip 
him.” There is therefore no advice—and of such advice no one can 
have too much—which I would rather give you than this: that you 
should measure all things by the demands of Nature; for these 
demands can be satisfied either without cost or else very cheaply. 
Only, do not mix any vices with these demands.
  Why need you ask how your food should be served, on what 
sort of table, with what sort of silver, with what well-matched and 
smooth-faced young servants? Nature demands nothing except 
mere food.

     Dost seek, when thirst inflames thy throat, a cup of gold?

     Dost scorn all else but peacock’s flesh or turbot
     When the hunger comes upon thee?[8]

  Hunger is not ambitious; it is quite satisfied to come to an end; 
nor does it care very much what food brings it to an end. Those 
things are but the instruments of a luxury which is not “hap-
piness”; a luxury which seeks how it may prolong hunger even 
after repletion, how to stuff the stomach, not to fill it, and how to 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 219

rouse a thirst that has been satisfied with the first drink. Horace’s 
words are therefore most excellent when he says that it makes 
no difference to one’s thirst in what costly goblet, or with what 
elaborate state, the water is served. For if you believe it to be of 
importance how curly-haired your slave is, or how transparent is 
the cup which he offers you, you are not thirsty.
  Among other things, Nature has bestowed upon us this special 
boon: she relieves sheer necessity of squeamishness. The super-
fluous things admit of choice; we say: “That is not suitable”; “this 
is not well recommended”; “that hurts my eyesight.” The Builder 
of the universe, who laid down for us the laws of life, provided 
that we should exist in well-being, but not in luxury. Everything 
conducive to our well-being is prepared and ready to our hands; 
but what luxury requires can never be got together except with 
wretchedness and anxiety.
  Let us therefore use this boon of Nature by reckoning it among 
the things of high importance; let us reflect that Nature’s best title 
to our gratitude is that whatever we want because of sheer neces-
sity we accept without squeamishness. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Seneca here reverts to the money-metaphors of Epp. i.-xxxiii.—lucellum, 
 munusculum, diurna mercedula, etc.
2. . p. 79 Iordan.
3. i.e., “something for one’s spare time”; cf. Ep. liii. 8 note, non est quod 
 precario philosopheris.
4. i.e., of common earthenware.
5. i.e., had got my coffers ready for the promised wealth.
6. Alexander the Great.
7. i.e., a “poverty” which is never satisfied.
8. Horace, Sat. i. 2. 114 ff.

                   LETTER 120
               More About Virtue
                       A

Your letter roamed, over several little problems, but finally dwelt 
upon this alone, asking for explanation: “How do we acquire a 
knowledge of that which is good and that which is honourable?” 
In the opinion of other schools,[1] these two qualities are distinct; 
among our followers, however, they are merely divided.
  This is what I mean: Some believe the Good to be that which 
is useful; they accordingly bestow this title upon riches, horses, 
wine, and shoes; so cheaply do they view the Good, and to such 
base uses do they let it descend. They regard as honourable that 
which agrees with the principle of right conduct—such as taking 
dutiful care of an old father, relieving a friend’s poverty, showing 
bravery on a campaign, and uttering prudent and well-balanced 
opinions.
  We, however, do make the Good and the honourable two 
things, but we make them out of one: only the honourable can be 
good; also, the honourable is necessarily good. I hold it superflu-
ous to add the distinction between these two qualities, inasmuch 
as I have mentioned it so many times.[2] But I shall say this one 
thing—that we regard nothing as good which can be put to wrong 
use by any person. And you see for yourself to what wrong uses 

Artwork opposite by Nimit Malavia
222 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

many men put their riches, their high position, or their physical 
powers.
  To return to the matter on which you desire information: “How 
we first acquire the knowledge of that which is good and that 
which is honourable.”
  Nature could not teach us this directly; she has given us the 
seeds of knowledge, but not knowledge itself. Some say that we 
merely happened upon this knowledge; but it is unbelievable 
that a vision of virtue could have presented itself to anyone by 
mere chance. We believe that it is inference due to observation, a 
comparison of events that have occurred frequently; our school 
of philosophy hold that the honourable and the good have been 
comprehended by analogy. Since the word “analogy”[3] has been 
admitted to citizen rank by Latin scholars, I do not think that it 
ought to be condemned, but I do think it should be brought into 
the citizenship which it can justly claim. I shall, therefore, make 
use of the word, not merely as admitted, but as established.
  Now what this “analogy” is, I shall explain.
  We understood what bodily health was: and from this basis we 
deduced the existence of a certain mental health also. We knew, 
too, bodily strength, and from this basis we inferred the existence 
of mental sturdiness. Kindly deeds, humane deeds, brave deeds, 
had at times amazed us; so we began to admire them as if they 
were perfect. Underneath, however, there were many faults, hid-
den by the appearance and the brilliancy of certain conspicuous 
acts; to these we shut our eyes. Nature bids us amplify praisewor-
thy things—everyone exalts renown beyond the truth. And thus 
from such deeds we deduced the conception of some great good.
  Fabricius rejected King Pyrrhus’s gold, deeming it greater than 
a king’s crown to be able to scorn a king’s money. Fabricius also, 
when the royal physician promised to give his master poison, 
warned Pyrrhus to beware of a plot. The selfsame man had the 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 223

resolution to refuse either to be won over by gold or to win by 
poison. So we admired the hero, who could not be moved by the 
promises of the king or against the king, who held fast to a noble 
ideal, and who—is anything more difficult?—was in war sinless; 
for he believed that wrongs could be committed even against an 
enemy, and in that extreme poverty which he had made his glory, 
shrank from receiving riches as he shrank from using poison. 
“Live,” he cried, “O Pyrrhus, thanks to me, and rejoice, instead 
of grieving as you have done till now, that Fabricius cannot be 
bribed!”[4]
  Horatius Cocles[5] blocked the narrow bridge alone, and 
ordered his retreat to be cut off, that the enemy’s path might be 
destroyed; then he long withstood his assailants until the crash 
of the beams, as they collapsed with a huge fall, rang in his ears. 
When he looked back and saw that his country, through his own 
danger, was free from danger, “Whoever,” he cried, “wishes to 
pursue me this way, let him come!”[6] He plunged headlong, tak-
ing as great care to come out arm’d from the midst of the dashing 
river-channel as he did to come out unhurt; he returned, preserv-
ing the glory of his conquering weapons, as safely as if he had 
come back over the bridge.
  These deeds and others of the same sort have revealed to us a 
picture of virtue. I will add something which may perhaps aston-
ish you: evil things have sometimes offered the appearance of 
what is honourable, and that which is best has been manifested 
through, its opposite. For there are, as you know, vices which are 
next-door to virtues; and even that which is lost and debased can 
resemble that which is upright. So the spendthrift falsely imitates 
the liberal man—although it matters a great deal whether a man 
knows how to give, or does not know how to save, his money. I 
assure you, my dear Lucilius, there are many who do not give, 
but simply throw away and I do not call a man liberal who is 
224 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

out of temper with his money. Carelessness looks like ease, and 
rashness like bravery.
  This resemblance has forced us to watch carefully and to dis-
tinguish between things which are by outward appearance closely 
connected, but which actually are very much at odds with one 
another; and in watching those who have become distinguished 
as a result of some noble effort, we have been forced to observe 
what persons have done some deed with noble spirit and lofty 
impulse, but have done it only once. We have marked one man 
who is brave in war and cowardly in civil affairs, enduring pov-
erty courageously and disgrace shamefacedly; we have praised 
the deed but we have despised the man.
  Again, we have marked another man who is kind to his friends 
and restrained towards his enemies, who carries on his political 
and his personal business with scrupulous devotion, not lacking 
in long-suffering where there is anything that must be endured, 
and not lacking in prudence when action is to be taken. We have 
marked him giving with lavish hand when it was his duty to 
make a payment, and, when he had to toil, striving resolutely 
and lightening his bodily weariness by his resolution. Besides, he 
has always been the same, consistent in all his actions, not only 
sound in his judgment but trained by habit to such an extent that 
he not only can act rightly, but cannot help acting rightly. We have 
formed the conception that in such a man perfect virtue exists.
  We have separated this perfect virtue into its several parts. 
The desires had to be reined in, fear to be suppressed, proper 
actions to be arranged, debts to be paid; we therefore included 
self-restraint, bravery, prudence, and justice—assigning to each 
quality its special function. How then have we formed the con-
ception of virtue? Virtue has been manifested to us by this man’s 
order, propriety, steadfastness, absolute harmony of action, and 
a greatness of soul that rises superior to everything. Thence has 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 225

been derived our conception of the happy life, which flows along 
with steady course, completely under its own control.
  How then did we discover this fact? I will tell you: that perfect 
man, who has attained virtue, never cursed his luck, and never 
received the results of chance with dejection; he believed that he 
was citizen and soldier of the universe, accepting his tasks as if 
they were his orders. Whatever happened, he did not spurn it, 
as if it were evil and borne in upon him by hazard; he accepted 
it as if it were assigned to be his duty. “Whatever this may be,” 
he says, “it is my lot; it is rough and it is hard, but I must work 
diligently at the task.”
  Necessarily, therefore, the man has shown himself great who 
has never grieved in evil days and never bewailed his destiny; 
he has given a clear conception of himself to many men; he has 
shone forth like a light in the darkness and has turned towards 
himself the thoughts of all men, because he was gentle and calm 
and equally compliant with the orders of man and of God.
  He possessed perfection of soul, developed to its highest capa-
bilities, inferior only to the mind of God—from whom a part 
flows down even into this heart of a mortal. But this heart is 
never more divine than when it reflects upon its mortality, and 
understands that man was born for the purpose of fulfilling his 
life, and that the body is not a permanent dwelling, but a sort of 
inn (with a brief sojourn at that) which is to be left behind when 
one perceives that one is a burden to the host.
  The greatest proof, as I maintain, my dear Lucilius, that the 
soul proceeds from loftier heights, is if it judges its present situ-
ation lowly and narrow, and is not afraid to depart. For he who 
remembers whence he has come knows whither he is to depart. 
Do we not see how many discomforts drive us wild, and how ill-
assorted is our fellowship with the flesh?
226 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  We complain at one time of our headaches, at another of our 
bad digestions, at another of our hearts and our throats. Some-
times the nerves trouble us, sometimes the feet; now it is diar-
rhoea, and again it is catarrh;[7] we are at one time full-blooded, 
at another anaemic; now this thing troubles us, now that, and 
bids us move away: it is just what happens to those who dwell in 
the house of another.
  But we, to whom such corruptible bodies have been allotted, 
nevertheless set eternity before our eyes, and in our hopes grasp at 
the utmost space of time to which the life of man can be extended, 
satisfied with no income and with no influence. What can be 
more shameless or foolish than this? Nothing is enough for us, 
though we must die some day, or rather, are already dying; for we 
stand daily nearer the brink, and every hour of time thrusts us on 
towards the precipice over which we must fall.
  See how blind our minds are! What I speak of as in the future 
is happening at this minute, and a large portion of it has already 
happened; for it consists of our past lives. But we are mistaken 
in fearing the last day, seeing that each day, as it passes, counts 
just as much to the credit of death.[8] The failing step does not 
produce, it merely announces, weariness. The last hour reaches, 
but every hour approaches, death. Death wears us away, but does 
not whirl us away.
  For this reason the noble soul, knowing its better nature, while 
taking care to conduct itself honourably and seriously at the post 
of duty where it is placed, counts none of these extraneous objects 
as its own, but uses them as if they were a loan, like a foreign visi-
tor hastening on his way.
  When we see a person of such steadfastness, how can we help 
being conscious of the image of a nature so unusual? Particularly 
if, as I remarked, it was shown to be true greatness by its con-
sistency. It is indeed consistency that abides; false things do not 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 227

last. Some men are like Vatinius or like Cato by turns;[9] at times 
they do not think even Curius stern enough, or Fabricius poor 
enough, or Tubero sufficiently frugal and contented with simple 
things; while at other times they vie with Licinus in wealth, with 
Apicius in banqueting, or with Maecenas in daintiness.
  The greatest proof of an evil mind is unsteadiness, and contin-
ued wavering between pretence of virtue and love of vice.

     He’d have sometimes two hundred slaves at hand

     And sometimes ten. He’d speak of kings and grand
     Moguls and naught but greatness. Then he’d say:
     “Give me a three-legged table and a tray
     Of good clean salt, and just a coarse-wove gown
     To keep the cold out.” If you paid him down
     (So sparing and content!) a million cool,
     In five short days he’d be a penceless fool.[10]

  The men I speak of are of this stamp; they are like the man 
whom Horatius Flaccus describes—a man never the same, never 
even like himself; to such an extent does he wander off into oppo-
sites. Did I say many are so? It is the case with almost all. Everyone 
changes his plans and prayers day by day. Now he would have 
a wife, and now a mistress; now he would be king, and again 
he strives to conduct himself so that no slave is more cringing; 
now he puffs himself up until he becomes unpopular; again, he 
shrinks and contracts into greater humility than those who are 
really unassuming; at one time he scatters money, at another he 
steals it.
  That is how a foolish mind is most clearly demonstrated: it 
shows first in this shape and then in that, and is never like itself—
which is, in my opinion, the most shameful of qualities. Believe 
me, it is a great rôle—to play the rôle of one man. But nobody 
can be one person except the wise man; the rest of us often shift 
228   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

our masks. At times you will think us thrifty and serious, at other 
times wasteful and idle. We continually change our characters and 
play a part contrary to that which we have discarded. You should 
therefore force yourself to maintain to the very end of life’s drama 
the character which you assumed at the beginning. See to it that 
men be able to praise you; if not, let them at least identify you. 
Indeed, with regard to the man whom you saw but yesterday, the 
question may properly be asked: “Who is he?” So great a change 
has there been! Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. i.e., the Peripatetic and Academic schools.
  2. Cf. Ep. cxviii. 10 and note.
  3. Consult Sandys, Hist. Class. Schol. i. pp. 148 and 175 f. Alexandrian 
   “analogists” opposed Pergamene “anomalists” with reference to the rules 
   affecting the forms of words. Out of the controversy arose the scientific 
   study of grammar.
  4. The two stories refer to the years 280 and 279 B.C., during the campaigns 
   of Pyrrhus in Italy.
  5. See Livy, ii. 10.
  6. Livy (loc cit.) reports him as saying: “Tiberine pater, te sancte precor, haec 
   arma et hunc militem propitio flumine accipias!” Macaulay in his ballad 
   translates Livy’s quotation almost literally.
  7. A chronic disease of Seneca himself. See the autobiographic fragment in 
   Ep. lxxviii. 1 f.
  8. Seneca is here developing the thought sketched in Ep. xii. 6 unus autem 
   dies gradus vitae est.
  9. For the same contrast cf. Ep. cxviii. 4 (and note). For the following names 
   see Index of Proper Names.
10. Horace, Sat. i. 3. 11-17.
                   LETTER 121
            On Instinct in Animals
                       A

You will bring suit against me, I feel sure, when I set forth for 
you today’s little problem, with which we have already fumbled 
long enough. You will cry out again: “What has this to do with 
character?” Cry out if you like, but let me first of all match you 
with other opponents,[1] against whom you may bring suit—such 
as Posidonius and Archidemus;[2] these men will stand trial. I 
shall then go on to say that whatever deals with character does 
not necessarily produce good character.
  Man needs one thing for his food, another for his exercise, 
another for his clothing, another for his instruction, and another 
for his pleasure. Everything, however, has reference to man’s 
needs, although everything does not make him better. Charac-
ter is affected by different things in different ways: some things 
serve to correct and regulate character, and others investigate its 
nature and origin.
  And when I seek the reason why Nature brought forth man, 
and why she set him above other animals, do you suppose that I 
have left character-study in the rear? No; that is wrong. For how 
are you to know what character is desirable, unless you have dis-
covered what is best suited to man? Or unless you have studied 
his nature? You can find out what you should do and what you 
230 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

should avoid, only when you have learned what you owe to your 
own nature.
  “I desire,” you say, “to learn how I may crave less, and fear less. 
Rid me of my unreasoning beliefs. Prove to me that so-called 
felicity is fickle and empty, and that the word easily admits of a 
syllable’s increase.”[3] I shall fulfil your want, encouraging your 
virtues and lashing your vices. People may decide that I am too 
zealous and reckless in this particular; but I shall never cease 
to hound wickedness, to check the most unbridled emotions, to 
soften the force of pleasures which will result in pain, and to cry 
down men’s prayers. Of course I shall do this; for it is the greatest 
evils that we have prayed for, and from that which has made us 
give thanks comes all that demands consolation.
  Meanwhile, allow me to discuss thoroughly some points which 
may seem now to be rather remote from the present inquiry. We 
were once debating whether all animals had any feelings about 
their “constitution.”[4] That this is the case is proved particularly 
by their making motions of such fitness and nimbleness that they 
seem to be trained for the purpose. Every being is clever in its own 
line. The skilled workman handles his tools with an ease born of 
experience; the pilot knows how to steer his ship skilfully; the art-
ist can quickly lay on the colours which he has prepared in great 
variety for the purpose of rendering the likeness, and passes with 
ready eye and hand from palette to canvas. In the same way an 
animal is agile in all that pertains to the use of its body.
  We are apt to wonder at skilled dancers because their gestures 
are perfectly adapted to the meaning of the piece and its accom-
panying emotions, and their movements match the speed of the 
dialogue. But that which art gives to the craftsman, is given to the 
animal by nature. No animal handles its limbs with difficulty, no 
animal is at a loss how to use its body. This function they exercise 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 231

immediately at birth. They come into the world with this knowl-
edge; they are born full-trained.
  But people reply: “The reason why animals are so dexterous 
in the use of their limbs is that if they move them unnaturally, 
they will feel pain. They arecompelled  to do thus, according to 
your school, and it is fear rather than will-power which moves 
them in the right direction.” This idea is wrong. Bodies driven by 
a compelling force move slowly; but those which move of their 
own accord possess alertness. The proof that it is not fear of pain 
which prompts them thus, is, that even when pain checks them 
they struggle to carry out their natural motions.
  Thus the child who is trying to stand and is becoming used to 
carry his own weight, on beginning to test his strength, falls and 
rises again and again with tears until through painful effort he has 
trained himself to the demands of nature. And certain animals 
with hard shells, when turned on their backs, twist and grope with 
their feet and make motions side-ways until they are restored to 
their proper position. The tortoise on his back feels no suffering; 
but he is restless because he misses his natural condition, and 
does not cease to shake himself about until he stands once more 
upon his feet.
  So all these animals have a consciousness of their physical con-
stitution, and for that reason can manage their limbs as readily as 
they do; nor have we any better proof that they come into being 
equipped with this knowledge than the fact that no animal is 
unskilled in the use of its body.
  But some object as follows: “According to your account, one’s 
constitution consists of a ruling power[5] in the soul which has 
a certain relation towards the body. But how can a child com-
prehend this intricate and subtle principle, which I can scarcely 
explain even to you? All living creatures should be born logicians, 
232 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

so as to understand a definition which is obscure to the majority 
of Roman citizens!”
  Your objection would be true if I spoke of living creatures as 
understanding “a definition of constitution,” and not “their actual 
constitution.” Nature is easier to understand than to explain; 
hence, the child of whom we were speaking does not understand 
what “constitution” is, but understands its own constitution. He 
does not know what “a living creature” is, but he feels that he is 
an animal.
  Moreover, that very constitution of his own he only under-
stands confusedly, cursorily, and darkly. We also know that we 
possess souls, but we do not know the essence, the place, the 
quality, or the source, of the soul. Such as is the consciousness 
of our souls which we possess, ignorant as we are of their nature 
and position, even so all animals possess a consciousness of their 
own constitutions. For they must necessarily feel this, because it 
is the same agency by which they feel other things also; they must 
necessarily have a feeling of the principle which they obey and by 
which they are controlled.
  Every one of us understands that there is something which stirs 
his impulses, but he does not know what it is. He knows that he 
has a sense of striving, although he does not know what it is or 
its source. Thus even children and animals have a consciousness 
of their primary element, but it is not very clearly outlined or 
portrayed.
  “You maintain, do you,” says the objector, “that every living 
thing is at the start adapted to its constitution, but that man’s 
constitution is a reasoning one, and hence man is adapted to 
himself not merely as a living, but as a reasoning, being? For man 
is dear to himself in respect of that wherein he is a man. How, 
then, can a child, being not yet gifted with reason, adapt himself 
to a reasoning constitution?”
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 233

  But each age has its own constitution, different in the case of 
the child, the boy, and the old man; they are all adapted to the 
constitution wherein they find themselves. The child is toothless, 
and he is fitted to this condition. Then his teeth grow, and he is 
fitted to that condition also. Vegetation also, which will develop 
into grain and fruits, has a special constitution when young and 
scarcely peeping over the tops of the furrows, another when it 
is strengthened and stands upon a stalk which is soft but strong 
enough to bear its weight, and still another when the colour 
changes to yellow, prophesies threshing-time, and hardens in the 
ear—no matter what may be the constitution into which the plant 
comes, it keeps it, and conforms thereto.
  The periods of infancy, boyhood, youth, and old age, are differ-
ent; but I, who have been infant, boy, and youth, am still the same. 
Thus, although each has at different times a different constitution, 
the adaptation of each to its constitution is the same. For nature 
does not consign boyhood or youth, or old age, to me; it consigns 
me to them. Therefore, the child is adapted to that constitution 
which is his at the present moment of childhood, not to that 
which will be his in youth. For even if there is in store for him any 
higher phase into which he must be changed, the state in which 
he is born is also according to nature.
  First of all, the living being is adapted to itself, for there must be 
a pattern to which all other things may be referred. I seek pleasure; 
for whom? For myself. I am therefore looking out for myself. I 
shrink from pain; on behalf of whom? Myself. Therefore, I am 
looking out for myself. Since I gauge all my actions with reference 
to my own welfare, I am looking out for myself before all else. 
This quality exists in all living beings—not engrafted but inborn.
  Nature brings up her own offspring and does not cast them 
away; and because the most assured security is that which is near-
est, every man has been entrusted to his own self. Therefore, as I 
234 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

have remarked in the course of my previous correspondence, even 
young animals, on issuing from the mother’s womb or from the 
egg, know at once of their own accord what is harmful for them, 
and avoid death-dealing things.[6] They even shrink when they 
notice the shadow of birds of prey which flit overhead.
  No animal, when it enters upon life, is free from the fear of 
death.
  People may ask: “How can an animal at birth have an under-
standing of things wholesome or destructive?” The first question, 
however, is whether it can have such understanding, and not how 
it can understand. And it is clear that they have such understand-
ing from the fact that, even if you add understanding, they will act 
no more adequately than they did in the first place. Why should 
the hen show no fear of the peacock or the goose, and yet run 
from the hawk, which is a so much smaller animal not even famil-
iar to the hen? Why should young chickens fear a cat and not a 
dog.? These fowls clearly have a presentiment of harm—one not 
based on actual experiments; for they avoid a thing before they 
can possibly have experience of it.
  Furthermore, in order that you may not suppose this to be the 
result of chance, they do not shrink from certain other things 
which you would expect them to fear, nor do they ever forget 
vigilance and care in this regard; they all possess equally the fac-
ulty of avoiding what is destructive. Besides, their fear does not 
grow as their lives lengthen.
  Hence indeed it is evident that these animals have not reached 
such a condition through experience; it is because of an inborn 
desire for self-preservation. The teachings of experience are slow 
and irregular; but whatever Nature communicates belongs equally 
to everyone, and comes immediately.
  If, however, you require an explanation, shall I tell you how it is 
that every living thing tries to understand that which is harmful? 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 235

It feels that it is constructed of flesh; and so it perceives to what an 
extent flesh may be cut or burned or crushed, and what animals 
are equipped with the power of doing this damage; it is of animals 
of this sort that it derives an unfavourable and hostile idea. These 
tendencies are closely connected; for each animal at the same time 
consults its own safety, seeking that which helps it, and shrinks 
from that which will harm it. Impulses towards useful objects, and 
revulsion from the opposite, are according to nature; without any 
reflection to prompt the idea, and without any advice, whatever 
Nature has prescribed, is done.
  Do you not see how skillful bees are in building their cells? How 
completely harmonious in sharing and enduring toil? Do you not 
see how the spider weaves a web so subtle that man’s hand can-
not imitate it; and what a task it is to arrange the threads, some 
directed straight towards the centre, for the sake of making the 
web solid, and others running in circles and lessening in thick-
ness—for the purpose of tangling and catching in a sort of net 
the smaller insects for whose ruin the spider spreads the web?
  This art is born, not taught; and for this reason no animal is 
more skilled than any other. You will notice that all spider-webs 
are equally fine, and that the openings in all honeycomb cells are 
identical in shape. Whatever art communicates is uncertain and 
uneven; but Nature’s assignments are always uniform. Nature has 
communicated nothing except the duty of taking care of them-
selves and the skill to do so; that is why living and learning begin 
at the same time.
  No wonder that living things are born with a gift whose absence 
would make birth useless. This is the first equipment that Nature 
granted them for the maintenance of their existence—the qual-
ity of adaptability and self-love. They could not survive except 
by desiring to do so. Nor would this desire alone have made 
them prosper, but without it nothing could have prospered. In 
236   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

no animal can you observe any low esteem, or even any careless-
ness, of self. Dumb beasts, sluggish in other respects, are clever 
at living. So you will see that creatures which are useless to others 
are alert for their own preservation.[7] Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., in addition to myself and confirming my statement.
2. Frag. 17 von Arnim.
3. i.e. felicitas becomes infelicitas.
4. i.e., their physical make-up, the elements of their physical being.
5. i.e., the “soul of the world,” of which each living soul is a part. The Stoics 
  believed that it was situated in the heart. Zeno called it ἡγεμονικόν, “ruling 
  power”; while the Romans used the term principale or principatus. The 
  principle described above is ὀρμή (impulse) or τόνος (tension).
6. Seneca is both sound and modern in his account of animal “intelligence.” 
  It is instinct, due to sensory-motor reactions, and depending largely upon 
  type heredity.
7. A theme developed by Cicero (De fin. iii. 16): placet . . . simul atque natum 
  sit animal . . . , ipsum sibi conciliari et commendari ad se conservandum.
                   LETTER 122
    On Darkness as a Veil for Wickedness
                       A

The day has already begun to lessen. It has shrunk considerably, 
but yet will still allow a goodly space of time if one rises, so to 
speak, with the day itself. We are more industrious, and we are 
better men if we anticipate the day and welcome the dawn; but 
we are base churls if we lie dozing when the sun is high in the 
heavens, or if we wake up only when noon arrives; and even then 
to many it seems not yet dawn.
  Some have reversed the functions of light and darkness; they 
open eyes sodden with yesterday’s debauch only at the approach 
of night. It is just like the condition of those peoples whom, 
according to Vergil, Nature has hidden away and placed in an 
abode directly opposite to our own:

     When in our face the Dawn with panting steeds

     Breathes down, for them the ruddy evening kindles
     Her late-lit fires.[1]

  It is not the country of these men, so much as it is their life, 
that is “directly opposite” to our own.
  There may be Antipodes dwelling in this same city of ours who, 
in Cato’s words,[2] “have never seen the sun rise or set.” Do you 
think that these men know how to live, if they do not know when 
to live? Do these men fear death, if they have buried themselves 
238 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

alive? They are as weird as the birds of night.[3] Although they pass 
their hours of darkness amid wine and perfumes, although they 
spend the whole extent of their unnatural waking hours in eat-
ing dinners—and those too cooked separately to make up many 
courses—they are not really banqueting; they are conducting their 
own funeral services. And the dead at least have their banquets 
by daylight.[4]
  But indeed to one who is active no day is long. So let us lengthen 
our lives; for the duty and the proof of life consist in action. Cut 
short the night: use some of it for the day’s business.
  Birds that are being prepared for the banquet, that they may 
be easily fattened through lack of exercise, are kept in darkness; 
and similarly, if men vegetate without physical activity, their idle 
bodies are overwhelmed with flesh, and in their self-satisfied 
retirement the fat of indolence grows upon them. Moreover, the 
bodies of those who have sworn allegiance to the hours of dark-
ness have a loathsome appearance. Their complexions are more 
alarming than those of anaemic invalids; they are lackadaisical 
and flabby with dropsy; though still alive, they are already carrion. 
But this, to my thinking, would be among the least of their evils. 
How much more darkness there is in their souls! Such a man is 
internally dazed; his vision is darkened; he envies the blind. And 
what man ever had eyes for the purpose of seeing in the dark?
  You ask me how this depravity comes upon the soul—this habit 
of reversing the daylight and giving over one’s whole existence 
to the night? All vices rebel against Nature; they all abandon the 
appointed order. It is the motto of luxury to enjoy what is unusual, 
and not only to depart from that which is right, but to leave it as 
far behind as possible, and finally even take a stand in opposi-
tion thereto.
  Do you not believe that men live contrary to Nature who drink 
fasting,[5] who take wine into empty veins, and pass to their food 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 239

in a state of intoxication? And yet this is one of youth’s popular 
vices—to perfect their strength in order to drink on the very 
threshold of the bath, amid the unclad bathers; nay even to soak 
in wine and then immediately to rub off the sweat which they 
have promoted by many a hot glass of liquor! To them, a glass 
after lunch or one after dinner is bourgeois; it is what the country 
squires do, who are not connoisseurs in pleasure. This unmixed 
wine delights them just because there is no food to float in it, 
because it readily makes its way into their muscles; this boozing 
pleases them just because the stomach is empty.
  Do you not believe that men live contrary to Nature who 
exchange the fashion of their attire with women?[6] Do not men 
live contrary to Nature who endeavour to look fresh and boyish 
at an age unsuitable for such an attempt? What could be more 
cruel or more wretched? Cannot time and man’s estate ever carry 
such a person beyond an artificial boyhood?[7]
  Do not men live contrary to Nature who crave roses in winter, 
or seek to raise a spring flower like the lily by means of hot-water 
heaters and artificial changes of temperature? Do not men live 
contrary to Nature who grow fruit-trees on the top of a wall? 
Or raise waving forests upon the roofs and battlements of their 
houses—the roots starting at a point to which it would be out-
landish for the tree-tops to reach? Do not men live contrary to 
Nature who lay the foundations of bathrooms in the sea and do 
not imagine that they can enjoy their swim unless the heated pool 
is lashed as with the waves of a storm?
  When men have begun to desire all things in opposition to 
the ways of Nature, they end by entirely abandoning the ways of 
Nature. They cry: “It is daytime—let us go to sleep! It is the time 
when men rest: now for exercise, now for our drive, now for our 
lunch! Lo, the dawn approaches: it is dinner-time! We should 
not do as mankind do. It is low and mean to live in the usual 
240 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

and conventional way. Let us abandon the ordinary sort of day. 
Let us have a morning that is a special feature of ours, peculiar 
to ourselves!”
  Such men are, in my opinion, as good as dead. Are they not 
all but present at a funeral—and before their time too—when 
they live amid torches and tapers?[8] I remember that this sort of 
life was very fashionable at one time: among such men as Acilius 
Buta, a person of praetorian rank, who ran through a tremendous 
estate and on confessing his bankruptcy to Tiberius, received the 
answer: “You have waked up too late!”
  Julius Montanus was once reading a poem aloud he was a mid-
dling good poet, noted for his friendship with Tiberius, as well 
as his fall from favour. He always used to fill his poems with 
a generous sprinkling of sunrises and sunsets. Hence, when a 
certain person was complaining that Montanus had read all day 
long, and declared that no man should attend any of his readings, 
Natta Pinarius[9] remarked: “I couldn’t make a fairer bargain than 
this: I am ready to listen to him from sunrise to sunset!”
  Montanus was reading, and had reached the words:[10]

     ‘Gins the bright morning to spread forth his flames clear-
     burning; the red dawn

     Scatters its light; and the sad-eyed swallow[11] returns 
     to her nestlings,
     Bringing the chatterers’ food, and with sweet bill 
     sharing and serving.

  Then Varus, a Roman knight, the hanger-on of Marcus Vini-
cius,[12] and a sponger at elegant dinners which he earned by his 
degenerate wit, shouted: “Bed-time for Buta!”
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 241

  And later, when Montanus declaimed

     Lo, now the shepherds have folded their flocks, and 
     the slow-moving darkness

     ‘Gins to spread silence o’er lands that are drowsily 
     lulled into slumber,

this same Varus remarked: “What? Night already? I’ll go and pay 
my morning call on Buta!” You see, nothing was more notorious 
than Buta’s upside-down manner of life. But this life, as I said, 
was fashionable at one time.
  And the reason why some men live thus is not because they 
think that night in itself offers any greater attractions, but because 
that which is normal gives them no particular pleasure; light being 
a bitter enemy of the evil conscience, and, when one craves or 
scorns all things in proportion as they have cost one much or 
little, illumination for which one does not pay is an object of 
contempt. Moreover, the luxurious person wishes to be an object 
of gossip his whole life; if people are silent about him, he thinks 
that he is wasting his time. Hence he is uncomfortable whenever 
any of his actions escape notoriety.
  Many men eat up their property, and many men keep mis-
tresses. If you would win a reputation among such persons, you 
must make your programme not only one of luxury but one of 
notoriety; for in such a busy community wickedness does not 
discover the ordinary sort of scandal.
  I heard Pedo Albinovanus, that most attractive story-teller, 
speaking of his residence above the town-house of Sextus Papin-
ius. Papinius belonged to the tribe of those who shun the light. 
“About nine o’clock at night I hear the sound of whips. I ask 
what is going on, and they tell me that Papinius is going over 
his accounts.[13] About twelve there is a strenuous shouting; I ask 
what the matter is, and they say he is exercising his voice. About 
242 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

two A.M. I ask the significance of the sound of wheels; they tell 
me that he is off for a drive.
  And at dawn there is a tremendous flurry-calling of slaves and 
butlers, and pandemonium among the cooks. I ask the meaning 
of this also, and they tell me that he has called for his cordial and 
his appetizer, after leaving the bath. His dinner,” said Pedo, “never 
went beyond the day,[14] for he lived very sparingly; he was lavish 
with nothing but the night. Accordingly, if you believe those who 
call him tight-fisted and mean, you will call him also a ‘slave of 
t h e l amp.’” [15]
  You should not be surprised at finding so many special man-
ifestations of the vices; for vices vary, and there are countless 
phases of them, nor can all their various kinds be classified. The 
method of maintaining righteousness is simple; the method of 
maintaining wickedness is complicated, and has infinite oppor-
tunity to swerve. And the same holds true of character; if you 
follow nature, character is easy to manage, free, and with very 
slight shades of difference; but the sort of person I have mentioned 
possesses badly warped character, out of harmony with all things, 
including himself.
  The chief cause, however, of this disease seems to me to be a 
squeamish revolt from the normal existence. Just as such persons 
mark themselves off from others in their dress, or in the elaborate 
arrangement of their dinners, or in the elegance of their carriages; 
even so they desire to make themselves peculiar by their way of 
dividing up the hours of their day. They are unwilling to be wicked 
in the conventional way, because notoriety is the reward of their 
sort of wickedness. Notoriety is what all such men seek—men 
who are, so to speak, living backwards.
  For this reason, Lucilius, let us keep to the way which Nature 
has mapped out for us, and let us not swerve therefrom. If we fol-
low Nature, all is easy and unobstructed; but if we combat Nature, 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    243

our life differs not a whit from that of men who row against the 
current. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Vergil, Georg. i. 250 ff.
  2. Cato, Frag. p. 110 Jordan.
  3. i.e., owls, of ill omen.
  4. In connexion with the Parentalia, Feb. 13-21, and at other anniversary 
   observations, the ceremonies were held in the daytime.
  5. A vice which Seneca especially abhors; cf. Ep. xv. 3 multum potionis altius 
   ieiunio iturae.
  6. By wearing silk gowns of transparent material.
  7. Not literally translated. For the same thought see Ep. xlvii. 7, etc. 
   Transcriber’s note: The Latin which Gummere refused to translate literally 
   is “Numquam vir erit, ut diu virum pati possit? Et cum illum contumeliae 
   sexus eripuisse debuerat, non ne aetas quidem eripiet?” or roughly: “Will he 
   never become a man, so that he can continue to be screwed by men? And 
   though his sex ought to spare him this insult, won’t even his age spare him?”
  8. The symbols of a Roman funeral. For the same practice, purposely 
   performed, see Ep. xii. 8 (and the note of W. C. Summers).
  9. Called by Tacitus, Ann. iv. 34, a Seiani cliens.
10. Baehrens, Frag. Poet. Rom. p. 355.
11. i.e., Procne, in the well-known nightingale myth.
12. Son of the P. Vinicius ridiculed in Ep. xl. 9. He was husband of Julia, 
   youngest daughter of Germanicus, and was poisoned by Messalina.
13. i.e., is punishing his slaves for errors in the day’s work.
14. i.e., balancing the custom of the ordinary Roman, whose dinner never 
   continued beyond nightfall.
15. “‘liver by candle-light,’ with a play on the word λίχνος, ‘luxurious’” 
   (Summers).
      Chinese: Ren Ci Yin Ce, Zhong Xiao Xin Cheng
English: Benevolence and compassion, devotion and honesty.
       (Read vertically from top right to bottom left. 
            Each character is one word above.)

               Calligrapher: Mak Ming Chan
                   LETTER 123
On the Conflict Between Pleasure and Virtue
                       A

Wearied with the discomfort rather than with the length of my 
journey, I have reached my Alban villa late at night, and I find 
nothing in readiness except myself. So I am getting rid of fatigue 
at my writing-table: I derive some good from this tardiness on the 
part of my cook and my baker. For I am communing with myself 
on this very topic—that nothing is heavy if one accepts it with a 
light heart, and that nothing need provoke one’s anger if one does 
not add to one’s pile of troubles by getting angry.
  My baker is out of bread; but the overseer, or the house-stew-
ard, or one of my tenants can supply me therewith. “Bad bread!” 
you say. But just wait for it; it will become good. Hunger will 
make even such bread delicate and of the finest flavour. For that 
reason I must not eat until hunger bids me; so I shall wait and 
shall not eat until I can either get good bread or else cease to be 
squeamish about it.
  It is necessary that one grow accustomed to slender fare: 
because there are many problems of time and place which will 
cross the path even of the rich man and one equipped for plea-
sure, and bring him up with a round turn. To have whatsoever 
he wishes is in no man’s power; it is in his power not to wish for 
what he has not, but cheerfully to employ what comes to him. A 
246 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

great step towards independence is a good-humoured stomach, 
one that is willing to endure rough treatment.
  You cannot imagine how much pleasure I derive from the fact 
that my weariness is becoming reconciled to itself; I am asking 
for no slaves to rub me down, no bath, and no other restorative 
except time. For that which toil has accumulated, rest can lighten. 
This repast, whatever it may be, will give me more pleasure than 
an inaugural banquet.[1]
  For I have made trial of my spirit on a sudden—a simpler and a 
truer test. Indeed, when a man has made preparations and given 
himself a formal summons to be patient, it is not equally clear just 
how much real strength of mind he possesses; the surest proofs 
are those which one exhibits off-hand, viewing one’s own troubles 
not only fairly but calmly, not flying into fits of temper or wordy 
wranglings, supplying one’s own needs by not craving something 
which was really due, and reflecting that our habits may be unsat-
isfied, but never our own real selves.
  How many things are superfluous we fail to realize until they 
begin to be wanting; we merely used them not because we needed 
them but because we had them. And how much do we acquire 
simply because our neighbours have acquired such things, or 
because most men possess them! Many of our troubles may be 
explained from the fact that we live according to a pattern, and, 
instead of arranging our lives according to reason, are led astray 
by convention.
  There are things which, if done by the few, we should refuse to 
imitate; yet when the majority have begun to do them, we follow 
along—just as if anything were more honourable because it is more 
frequent! Furthermore, wrong views, when they have become 
prevalent, reach, in our eyes, the standard of righteousness.
  Everyone now travels with Numidian outriders preceding 
him, with a troop of slave-runners to clear the way; we deem it 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 247

disgraceful to have no attendants who will elbow crowds from 
the road, or will prove, by a great cloud of dust, that a high dig-
nitary is approaching! Everyone now possesses mules that are 
laden with crystal and myrrhine cups carved by skilled artists 
of great renown; it is disgraceful for all your baggage to be made 
up of that which can be rattled along without danger. Everyone 
has pages who ride along with ointment-covered faces so that 
the heat or the cold will not harm their tender complexions; it is 
disgraceful that none of your attendant slave-boys should show 
a healthy cheek, not covered with cosmetics.
  You should avoid conversation with all such persons: they are 
the sort that communicate and engraft their bad habits from one 
to another. We used to think that the very worst variety of these 
men were those who vaunted their words; but there are certain 
men who vaunt their wickedness. Their talk is very harmful; for 
even though it is not at once convincing, yet they leave the seeds 
of trouble in the soul, and the evil which is sure to spring into new 
strength follows us about even when we have parted from them.
  Just as those who have attended a concert[2] carry about in their 
heads the melodies and the charm of the songs they have heard—
a proceeding which interferes with their thinking and does not 
allow them to concentrate upon serious subjects—even so the 
speech of flatterers and enthusiasts over that which is depraved 
sticks in our minds long after we have heard them talk. It is not 
easy to rid the memory of a catching tune; it stays with us, lasts 
on, and comes back from time to time. Accordingly, you should 
close your ears against evil talk, and right at the outset, too; for 
when such talk has gained an entrance and the words are admitted 
and are in our minds, they become more shameless.
  And then we begin to speak as follows: “Virtue, Philosophy, 
Justice—this is a jargon of empty words. The only way to be happy 
is to do yourself well. To eat, drink, and spend your money is the 
248 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

only real life, the only way to remind yourself that you are mortal. 
Our days flow on, and life—which we cannot restore—hastens 
away from us. Why hesitate to come to our senses? This life of 
ours will not always admit pleasures; meantime, while it can do 
so, while it clamours for them, what profit lies in imposing there-
upon frugality? Therefore get ahead of death, and let anything 
that death will filch from you be squandered now upon yourself. 
You have no mistress, no favourite slave to make your mistress 
envious; you are sober when you make your daily appearance 
in public; you dine as if you had to show your account-book to 
‘Papa’; but that is not living, it is merely going shares in someone 
else’s existence.
  And what madness it is to be looking out for the interests of 
your heir, and to deny yourself everything, with the result that 
you turn friends into enemies by the vast amount of the fortune 
you intend to leave! For the more the heir is to get from you, the 
more he will rejoice in your taking-off! All those sour fellows who 
criticize other men’s lives in a spirit of priggishness and are real 
enemies to their own lives, playing schoolmaster to the world—
you should not consider them as worth a farthing, nor should you 
hesitate to prefer good living to a good reputation.”
  These are voices which you ought to shun just as Ulysses did; he 
would not sail past them until he was lashed to the mast. They are 
no less potent; they lure men from country, parents, friends, and 
virtuous ways; and by a hope that, if not base, is ill-starred, they 
wreck them upon a life of baseness. How much better to follow a 
straight course and attain a goal where the words “pleasant” and 
“honourable” have the same meaning![3]
  This end will be possible for us if we understand that there are 
two classes of objects which either attract us or repel us. We are 
attracted by such things as riches, pleasures, beauty, ambition, 
and other such coaxing and pleasing objects; we are repelled by 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 249

toil, death, pain, disgrace, or lives of greater frugality. We ought 
therefore to train ourselves so that we may avoid a fear of the one 
or a desire for the other. Let us fight in the opposite fashion: let us 
retreat from the objects that allure, and rouse ourselves to meet 
the objects that attack.
  Do you not see how different is the method of descending a 
mountain from that employed in climbing upwards? Men com-
ing down a slope bend backwards; men ascending a steep place 
lean forward. For, my dear Lucilius, to allow yourself to put your 
body’s weight ahead when coming down, or, when climbing up, 
to throw it backward is to comply with vice. The pleasures take 
one down hill but one must work upwards toward that which is 
rough and hard to climb; in the one case let us throw our bodies 
forward, in the others let us put the check-rein on them.
  Do you believe me to be stating now that only those men bring 
ruin to our ears, who praise pleasure, who inspire us with fear of 
pain—that element which is in itself provocative of fear? I believe 
that we are also in injured by those who masquerade under the 
disguise of the Stoic school and at the same time urge us on into 
vice. They boast that only the wise man and the learned is a lover.[4] 
“He alone has wisdom in this art; the wise man too is best skilled 
in drinking and feasting. Our study ought to be this alone: up to 
what age the bloom of love can endure!”
  All this may be regarded as a concession to the ways of Greece; 
we ourselves should preferably turn our attention to words like 
these: “No man is good by chance. Virtue is something which 
must be learned. Pleasure is low, petty, to be deemed worthless, 
shared even by dumb animals—the tiniest and meanest of whom 
fly towards pleasure. Glory is an empty and fleeting thing, lighter 
than air. Poverty is an evil to no man unless he kick against the 
goads.[5] Death is not an evil; why need you ask? Death alone is the 
equal privilege of mankind. Superstition is the misguided idea of a 
250   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

lunatic; it fears those whom it ought to love; it is an outrage upon 
those whom it worships. For what difference is there between 
denying the gods and dishonouring them?”
   You should learn such principles as these, nay rather you should 
learn them by heart; philosophy ought not to try to explain away 
vice. For a sick man, when his physician bids him live recklessly, 
is doomed beyond recall. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., a dinner given by an official when he entered uponadeo ( ) his office.
2. For symphonia see Ep. li. 4 and note. Compare also the commissiones, 
  orchestral exhibitions, composed of many voices, flutes, and brass 
  instruments, Ep. lxxxiv. 10.
3. i.e., to live by Stoicism rather than by Epicureanism.
4. Meaning, in line with the Stoic paradoxes, that only the sage knows how to 
  be rightly in love.
5. Transcriber’s  note: The Latin is “Paupertas nulli malum est nisi repugnanti,” 
  i.e. “Poverty is an evil to noone unless they resist.” Gummere’s odd phrase 
  “kick against the goads” is actually from the Bible (Acts 26:14)
                   LETTER 124
  On the True Good as Attained by Reason
                       A

     Full many an ancient precept could I give,

     Didst thou not shrink, and feel it shame to learn
     Such lowly duties.[1]

  But you do not shrink, nor are you deterred by any subtleties 
of study. For your cultivated mind is not wont to investigate such 
important subjects in a free-and-easy manner. I approve your 
method in that you make everything count towards a certain 
degree of progress, and in that you are disgruntled only when 
nothing can be accomplished by the greatest degree of subtlety. 
And I shall take pains to show that this is the case now also. Our 
question is, whether the Good is grasped by the senses or by the 
understanding; and the corollary thereto is that it does not exist 
in dumb animals or little children.
  Those who rate pleasure as the supreme ideal hold that the 
Good is a matter of the senses; but we Stoics maintain that it is a 
matter of the understanding, and we assign it to the mind. If the 
senses were to pass judgment on what is good, we should never 
reject any pleasure; for there is no pleasure that does not attract, 
no pleasure that does not please. Conversely, we should undergo 
no pain voluntarily; for there is no pain that does not clash with 
the senses.
252 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  Besides, those who are too fond of pleasure and those who fear 
pain to the greatest degree would in that case not deserve reproof. 
But we condemn men who are slaves to their appetites and their 
lusts, and we scorn men who, through fear of pain, will dare no 
manly deed. But what wrong could such men be committing if 
they looked merely to the senses as arbiters of good and evil? For 
it is to the senses that you and yours have entrusted the test of 
things to be sought and things to be avoided!
  Reason, however, is surely the governing element in such a 
matter as this; as reason has made the decision concerning the 
happy life, and concerning virtue and honour also, so she has 
made the decision with regard to good and evil. For with them[2] 
the vilest part is allowed to give sentence about the better, so that 
the senses—dense as they are, and dull, and even more sluggish 
in man than in the other animals—pass judgment on the Good.
  Just suppose that one should desire to distinguish tiny objects 
by the touch rather than by the eyesight! There is no special fac-
ulty more subtle and acute than the eye, that would enable us to 
distinguish between good and evil. You see, therefore, in what 
ignorance of truth a man spends his days and how abjectly he has 
overthrown lofty and divine ideals, if he thinks that the sense of 
touch can pass judgment upon the nature of the Supreme Good 
and the Supreme Evil!
  He[3] says: “Just as every science and every art should possess 
an element that is palpable and capable of being grasped by the 
senses (their source of origin and growth), even so the happy 
life derives its foundation and its beginnings from things that 
are palpable, and from that which falls within the scope of the 
senses. Surely you admit that the happy life takes its beginnings 
from things palpable to the senses.”
  But we define as “happy” those things that are in accord with 
Nature. And that which is in accord with Nature is obvious and 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 253

can be seen at once—just as easily as that which is complete. 
That which is according to Nature, that which is given us as a 
gift immediately at our birth, is, I maintain, not a Good, but the 
beginning of a Good. You, however, assign the Supreme Good, 
pleasure, to mere babies, so that the child at its birth begins at 
the point whither the perfected man arrives. You are placing the 
tree-top where the root ought to be.
  If anyone should say that the child, hidden in its mother’s 
womb, of unknown sex too, delicate, unformed, and shapeless—
if one should say that this child is already in a state of goodness, 
he would clearly seem to be astray in his ideas. And yet how little 
difference is there between one who has just lately received the gift 
of life, and one who is still a hidden burden in the bowels of the 
mother! They are equally developed, as far as their understanding 
of good or evil is concerned; and a child is as yet no more capable 
of comprehending the Good than is a tree or any dumb beast.
  But why is the Good non-existent in a tree or in a dumb beast? 
Because there is no reason there, either. For the same cause, then, 
the Good is non-existent in a child, for the child also has no rea-
son; the child will reach the Good only when he reaches reason.[4]
  There are animals without reason, there are animals not yet 
endowed with reason, and there are animals who possess reason, 
but only incompletely;[5] in none of these does the Good exist, for 
it is reason that brings the Good in its company. What, then, is 
the distinction between the classes which I have mentioned? In 
that which does not possess reason, the Good will never exist. 
In that which is not yet endowed with reason, the Good cannot 
be existent at the time. And in that which possesses reason but 
only incompletely, the Good is capable of existing, but does not 
yet exist.
  This is what I mean, Lucilius: the Good cannot be discovered in 
any random person, or at any random age; and it is as far removed 
254 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

from infancy as last is from first, or as that which is complete from 
that which has just sprung into being. Therefore, it cannot exist 
in the delicate body, when the little frame has only just begun to 
knit together. Of course not—no more than in the seed.
  Granting the truth of this, we understand that there is a cer-
tain kind of Good of a tree or in a plant; but this is not true of 
its first growth, when the plant has just begun to spring forth 
out of the ground. There is a certain Good of wheat: it is not yet 
existent, however, in the swelling stalk, nor when the soft ear is 
pushing itself out of the husk, but only when summer days and 
its appointed maturity have ripened the wheat. Just as Nature in 
general does not produce her Good until she is brought to perfec-
tion, even so man’s Good does not exist in man until both reason 
and man are perfected.
  And what is this Good? I shall tell you: it is a free mind, an 
upright mind, subjecting other things to itself and itself to noth-
ing. So far is infancy from admitting this Good that boyhood 
has no hope of it, and even young manhood cherishes the hope 
without justification; even our old age is very fortunate if it has 
reached this Good after long and concentrated study. If this, then, 
is the Good, the good is a matter of the understanding.
  “But,” comes the retort, “you admitted that there is a certain 
Good of trees and of grass; then surely there can be a certain 
Good of a child also.” But the true Good is not found in trees or 
in dumb animals the Good which exists in them is called good 
only by courtesy.[6] “Then what is it?” you say. Simply that which 
is in accord with the nature of each. The real Good cannot find a 
place in dumb animals—not by any means; its nature is more blest 
and is of a higher class. And where there is no place for reason, 
the Good does not exist.
  There are four natures which we should mention here: of the 
tree, animal, man, and God. The last two, having reasoning power, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 255

are of the same nature, distinct only by virtue of the immortal-
ity of the one and the mortality of the other. Of one of these, 
then—to wit God—it is Nature that perfects the Good; of the 
other—to wit man—pains and study do so. All other things are 
perfect only in their particular nature, and not truly perfect, since 
they lack reason.
  Indeed, to sum up, that alone is perfect which is perfect accord-
ing to nature as a whole, and nature as a whole is possessed of 
reason. Other things can be perfect according to their kind.
  That which cannot contain the happy life cannot contain that 
which produces the happy life; and the happy life is produced by 
Goods alone. In dumb animals there is not a trace of the happy 
life, nor of the means whereby the happy life is produced; in dumb 
animals the Good does not exist.
   The dumb animal comprehends the present world about him 
through his senses alone. He remembers the past only by meeting 
with something which reminds his senses; a horse, for example, 
remembers the right road only when he is placed at the starting-
point. In his stall, however, he has no memory of the road, no mat-
ter how often he may have stepped along it. The third state—the 
future—does not come within the ken of dumb beasts.
  How, then, can we regard as perfect the nature of those who 
have no experience of time in its perfection? For time is three-
fold—past, present, and future. Animals perceive only the time 
which is of greatest moment to them within the limits of their 
coming and going—the present. Rarely do they recollect the 
past—and that only when they are confronted with present 
reminders.
  Therefore the Good of a perfect nature cannot exist in an imper-
fect nature; for if the latter sort of nature should possess the Good, 
so also would mere vegetation. I do not indeed deny that dumb 
animals have strong and swift impulses toward actions which 
256 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

seem according to nature, but such impulses are confused and 
disordered. The Good however, is never confused or disordered.
  “What!” you say, “do dumb animals move in disturbed and 
ill-ordered fashion?” I should say that they moved in disturbed 
and ill-ordered fashion, if their nature admitted of order; as it is, 
they move in accordance with their nature. For that is said to be 
“disturbed” which can also at some other time be “not disturbed”; 
so, too, that is said to be in a state of trouble which can be in a 
state of peace. No man is vicious except one who has the capac-
ity of virtue; in the case of dumb animals their motion is such as 
results from their nature.
  But, not to weary you, a certain sort of good will be found in 
a dumb animal, and a certain sort of virtue, and a certain sort of 
perfection—but neither the Good, nor virtue, nor perfection in 
the absolute sense. For this is the privilege of reasoning beings 
alone, who are permitted to know the cause, the degree, and the 
means. Therefore, good can exist only in that which possesses 
reason.
  Do you ask now whither our argument is tending, and of what 
benefit it will be to your mind? I will tell you: it exercises and 
sharpens the mind, and ensures, by occupying it honourably, that 
it will accomplish some sort of good. And even that is beneficial 
which holds men back when they are hurrying into wickedness. 
However, I will say this also: I can be of no greater benefit to you 
than by revealing the Good that is rightly yours, by taking you 
out of the class of dumb animals, and by placing you on a level 
with God.
  Why, pray, do you foster and practice your bodily strength? 
Nature has granted strength in greater degree to cattle and wild 
beasts. Why cultivate your beauty? After all your efforts, dumb 
animals surpass you in comeliness. Why dress your hair with such 
unending attention? Though you let it down in Parthian fashion, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 257

or tie it up in the German style, or, as the Scythians do, let it flow 
wild—yet you will see a mane of greater thickness tossing upon 
any horse you choose, and a mane of greater beauty bristling upon 
the neck of any lion. And even after training yourself for speed, 
you will be no match for the hare.
  Are you not willing to abandon all these details—wherein you 
must acknowledge defeat, striving as you are for something that 
is not your own and come back to the Good that is really yours?
  And what is this Good? It is a clear and flawless mind, which 
rivals that of God,[7] raised far above mortal concerns, and count-
ing nothing of its own to be outside itself. You are a reasoning 
animal. What Good, then, lies within you? Perfect reason. Are 
you willing to develop this to its farthest limits—to its greatest 
degree of increase?
  Only consider yourself happy when all your joys are born of 
reason, and when—having marked all the objects which men 
clutch at, or pray for, or watch over—you find nothing which you 
will desire; mind, I do not say prefer. Here is a short rule by which 
to measure yourself, and by the test of which you may feel that 
you have reached perfection: “You will come to your own when 
you shall understand that those whom the world calls fortunate 
are really the most unfortunate of all.” Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Vergil, Georg. i. 176 f.
2. i.e., the Epicureans.
3. i.e., the advocate of the “touch” theory.
4. According to the Stoics (and other schools also), the “innate notions,” 
 or groundwork of knowledge, begin to be subject to reason after the 
 attainment of a child’s seventh year.
5. i.e., they are limited to “practical judgment.”
6. Just as Academic and Peripatetic philosophers sometimes defined as 
 “goods” what the Stoics called “advantages.”
7. One of the most conspicuous Stoic paradoxes maintained that “the wise 
 man is a God.”

            PROFILES OF 
    MODERN-DAY STOICS
                       A
The following pages profile modern-day stoics found inTools  of 
Titans: The Tactics, Routines, and Habits of Billionaires, Icons, and 
World-Class Performers. These profiles also include some of their 
favorite tools and most amusing stories, anecdotes, and quirks. 
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. Even Stoics deserve 
a laugh once in a while, n’est-ce pas? 
  Here’s how they’re spread across the volumes of The Tao 
of Seneca:

  Volume 1 — Jocko Willink, Derek Sivers, Sebastian Junger
  Volume 2 — Tony Robbins, Chris Sacca, Amelia Boone
  Volume 3 — Arnold Schwarzenegger, Naval Ravikant

  Not all of the people above would describe themselves as 
“Stoic,” but they exhibit the qualities Seneca, Marcus Aurelius, 
and Epictetus would have recognized as such.
  All are incredible.

  Enjoy,
  Tim Ferriss

  P.S. “TIM” or “TF” in the text refers to my words or commen-
tary, as I interviewed the people profiled. Their full 2–3-hour 
interviews can all be found at tim.blog/podcast.
ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER

Arnold Schwarzenegger (FB: @arnold, TW/IG: @Schwarzenegger,
schwarzenegger.com) was born in Thal, Austria in 1947, and by 
the age of 20 dominated the sport of competitive bodybuilding, 
becoming the youngest person ever to win the Mr. Universe title. 
With his sights set on Hollywood, he emigrated to America in 
1968 and went on to win five Mr. Universe titles and seven Mr. 
Olympia titles before retiring from competitve bodybuilding to 
dedicate himself to acting. Schwarzenegger, who worked under 
the pseudonym Arnold Strong in his first feature, had his big 
break in 1982 with Conan the Barbarian. To date, his films have 
grossed more than $3 billion worldwide.
  He gratefully served the people of California as the state’s 38th 
governor from 2003 to 2010. Notably, Schwarzenegger made Cali-
fornia a world leader in renewable energy and combating climate 
change with the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, became 
the first governor in decades to invest in rebuilding California’s 
critical infrastructure with his Strategic Growth Plan, and insti-
tuted dynamic political reforms that stopped the century-old 
practice of gerrymandering by creating an independent redis-
tricting commission and brought political leaders closer to the 
center by creating an open primary system.
  Schwarzenegger acts as chairman of the After-School All-
Stars, a nationwide after-school program, and he continues 
his policy work through the USC Schwarzenegger Institute for 
State and Global Policy, which seeks to advance his vision of 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 261

post-partisanship, where leaders put people over political parties 
and work together to find the best ideas and solutions to benefit 
the people they serve.

BEHIND THE SCENES

➢  Arnold is a huge chess fan and plays daily. He rotates 
  through different partners and keeps annual score cards. By 
  the end of a year, some of them have tallies in the thousands 
  of games. One of his favorite documentaries is Brooklyn 
  Castle, a film about chess in inner-city schools.

➢  When I first met Arnold and we sat down at his kitchen 
  table, I didn’t know how to address him and nervously 
  asked. He replied: “Well, you can address me any way you 
  want. You can call me Governator, Governor, schnitzel, 
  Arnold, anything. But I think Arnold will be right.”

➢  I used a Zoom H6 recorder for primary audio, but I had 
  a backup recorder (Zoom H4n) for our first interview. 
  Arnold asked “What’s this for?” to which I replied, “Backup, 
  in case the primary fails.” He tapped his head and looked 
  at his team, seated around the room. Having backup audio 
  makes a good impression. Cal Fussman (page 495) got the 
  same response from Richard Branson, as no busy person 
  wants to take 1 to 3 hours for an interview that never gets 
  published.

“I WASN’T THERE TO COMPETE. I WAS THERE TO WIN.”
I brought up of a photo of Arnold at age 19, just before he won 
his first big competition, Junior Mr. Europe. I asked, “Your face 
was so confident compared to every other competitor. Where did 
that confidence come from?” He replied:
262 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

“My confidence came from my vision. . . .I  am a big believer that 
if you have a very clear vision of where you want to go, then 
the rest of it is much easier. Because you always know why you 
are training 5 hours a day, you always know why you are push-
ing and going through the pain barrier, and why you have to eat 
more, and why you have to struggle more, and why you have to be 
more disciplined. . . . I felt that I could win it, and that was what 
I was there for. I wasn’t there to compete. I was there to win.”

EUROPEAN BRICK LAYING
In 1971, Arnold started a brick laying company with his best 
friend, Franco Columbu, an Italian powerlifting, boxing, and 
bodybuilding champion who’d lived in Germany. At the time, 
anything “European” was exotic and assumed to be better (e.g., 
the Swedish massage craze), so they put ads in the L.A. Times 
for “European bricklayers and masonry experts, marble experts. 
Building chimneys and fireplaces the European style.”
  “Franco would play the bad guy, and I played the good guy. We 
would go to someone’s house and then someone would say, ‘Well, 
look at my patio. It’s all cracked. Can you guys put a new patio 
in here?’ I would say ‘yes’ and then we would run out and get the 
tape measure, but it would be a tape measure with centimeters. 
No one in those days could at all figure out anything with centi-
meters. We would be measuring up and I would say ‘4 meters and 
82 centimeters.’ They had no idea what we were talking about. We 
were writing up dollars and amounts and square centimeters and 
square meters. Then I would go to the guy and say, ‘It’s $5,000,’ 
and the guy would be in a state of shock. He’d say, ‘It’s $5,000? 
This is outrageous.’ I’d say, ‘What did you expect?’ and he’d say, 
‘I expected like $2,000 or $3,000.’ I’d say, ‘Let me talk to my guy 
because he’s really the masonry expert, but I can beat him down 
for you a little bit. Let me soften the meat.’ Then I would go to 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 263

Franco and we would start arguing in German. ‘[Content in Ger-
man]!!!’ This would be going on and on, and he was screaming 
back at me in Italian. Then, all of a sudden, he would calm down, 
and I would go to the guy and say, ‘Phew . . . okay, here it is. I could 
get him as low as $3,800. Can you go with that?’ He says, ‘Thank 
you very much. I really think that you’re a great man’ and blah, 
blah, blah and all this stuff. I’d say, ‘Give us half down right now 
and we’ll go right away and get the cement and the bricks and 
everything we need for here and we’ll start working on Monday.’ 
The guy was ecstatic. He gave us the money and we immediately 
went to the bank and cashed the check. We had to make sure the 
money was in the bank account, and then we went out and got 
the cement, the wheelbarrow, and all the stuff that we needed and 
went to work. We worked like that for 2 years very successfully.”
  TF: The “content in German” is really fun to listen to. Most peo-
ple, myself included, had never heard Arnold speak in his native 
German, let alone shout insults in German. It’s fantastic. Just 
jump to 29:30 in the full episode at http://tim.blog/2015/02/02/
arnold-schwarzenegger. 

“DID YOU HURT YOUR KNEE?” AND OTHER 
PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE
“By the time I came to America and started competing over here 
[I would say to my competitors something like], ‘Let me ask you 
something, do you have any knee injuries or something like that?’ 
Then they would look at me and say, ‘No, why? I have no knee 
injury at all . . . my knees feel great. Why are you asking?’ I said, 
‘Well because your thighs look a little slimmer to me. I thought 
maybe you can’t squat, or maybe there’s some problem with leg 
extension.’ And then I’d see him for all 2 hours in the gym, always 
going in front of the mirror and checking out his thighs. . . . People 
are vulnerable about those things. Naturally, when you have a 
264 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

competition, you use all this. You ask people if they were sick for 
a while. They look a little leaner. Or ‘Did you take any salty foods 
lately? Because it looks like you have water retention, and it looks 
like you’re not as ripped as you looked a week or so ago.’ It throws 
people off in an unbelievable way.”

HOW ARNOLD MADE MILLIONS BEFORE HE 
BECAME A MOVIE STAR

“[Early on] I did not rely on my movie career to make a liv-
ing. That was my intention, because I saw over the years, the 
people that worked out in the gym and that I met in the acting 
classes, they were all very vulnerable because they didn’t have 
any money, and they had to take anything that was offered to 
them because that was their living. I didn’t want to get into that 
situation. I felt if I was smart with real estate and took my little 
money that I made in bodybuilding and in seminars and selling 
my courses through the mail, I could save up enough to put 
down money for an apartment building. I realized in the 1970s 
that the inflation rate was very high and therefore an invest-
ment like that is unbeatable. Buildings that I would buy for 
$500K within the year were $800K and I put only maybe $100K 
down, so you made 300% on your money. . . . I quickly devel-
oped and traded up my buildings and bought more apartment 
buildings and office buildings on Main Street down in Santa 
Monica and so on. . . . I benefited from [a magic decade] and I 
became a millionaire from my real estate investments. That was 
before my career took off in show business and acting, which 
was afterConan  the Barbarian.”

  TF: This makes me think of one of my favorite negotiating 
maxims: “In negotiation, he who cares the least wins.” He could 
ignore bit parts because he had cash flow from his real estate 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 265

investments. On a related note, Arnold makes films or stars in 
them, but he doesn’t invest in them. He’s offset the potential vola-
tility of his own career by investing primarily in real estate. I’ve 
taken a similar approach to date, focusing on two ends of the 
spectrum: early-stage tech startups (extremely volatile) and real 
estate that I’m happy to hold forever, if need be.

NEVER AUDITION — OWN OR CREATE A UNIQUE NICHE
“I never auditioned. Never. I would never go out for the regular 
parts because I was not a regular-looking guy, so my idea always 
was: Everyone is going to look the same, and everyone is trying 
to be the blond guy in California, going to Hollywood interviews 
and looking somewhat athletic and cute and all this. How can 
I carve myself out a niche that only I have? . . . Of course, the 
naysayers were there, and they said, ‘Well, you know the time 
[for bodybuilders] has passed. It was 20 years ago. You look too 
big, you’re too monstrous, too muscular, you will never get in 
the movies.’ That’s what producers said in the beginning in Hol-
lywood. That’s also what agents and managers said. ‘I doubt you’re 
going to be successful. . . . Today’s idols are Dustin Hoffman, Al 
Pacino, Woody Allen, all little guys. Those are the sex symbols. 
Look at you. You weigh 250 pounds or something like that. That 
time is over.’ But I felt very strongly and had a very clear vision 
that the time would come that someone would appreciate that. . . . 
[Eventually] the very things that the agents and the managers 
and the studio executives said would be a total obstacle became 
an asset, and my career started taking off.”
  TF: Arnold was able to use his biggest “flaws” as his biggest 
assets, in part because he could bide his time and didn’t have 
to rush to make rent. He shared an illustrative anecdote from 
the Terminator set: “Jim Cameron said if we wouldn’t have had 
266 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

Schwarzenegger, then we couldn’t have done the movie, because 
only he sounded like a machine.”

ARNOLD’S MOST PERSONALLY PROFITABLE FILM 
WAS . . . TWINS?
“Twins came together because I felt very strongly that I had a very 
humorous side, and that if someone would be patient enough and 
willing to work with me as a director, that they would be able to 
bring that humor out of me.”
  Arnold loved Ghostbusters, so he pursued the director, Ivan 
Reitman. Since most people felt a comedy with Schwarzenegger 
would flop, that was a blind spot they could capitalize on:
  “We sat around at a restaurant, and we made a deal on a nap-
kin: ‘We’re going to make the movie for free. We don’t want to 
get any salaries and we get a big back end. Ivan gave it to Tom 
Pollock, who was then running Universal Studios. Tom Pollock 
said ‘This is great, and we can make this movie for $16.5M if you 
guys don’t take a salary and you get a big back end [profit par-
ticipation]. We’re going to give you 37%’ or whatever for Danny 
[DeVito], Ivan, and me [to divide among ourselves]. We worked 
out the percentage [our salaries would have been of the produc-
tion budget] . . . and that’s how we ended up dividing up the pot 
amongst ourselves. Let me tell you, I made more money on that 
movie than any other movie, and the gift keeps on giving. It’s 
just wonderful. Tom Pollock, after the movie came out, he says, 
‘All I can tell you is that this is what you guys did to me.’ Then he 
turned around and bent over and pulled his pockets out. ‘You’ve 
fucked me and cleaned me out.’ It was very funny. He said he’d 
never make that deal again. The movie was a huge hit. It came out 
just before Christmas. Throughout Christmas and New Year’s, it 
made $3 to $4M every day, which in today’s terms would be, of 
course, double or triple. It was just huge and went up to $129M 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 267

domestically, and I think worldwide it was $269M or something 
like that.”
  TF: This reminded me of the deal that George Lucas crafted for 
Star Wars, in which the studio effectively said, “Toys? Yeah, sure, 
whatever. You can have the toys.” That was a multi-billion-dollar 
mistake that gave Lucas infinite financing for life (an estimated 
8,000,000,000+ units sold to date). When deal-making, ask your-
self: Can I trade a short-term, incremental gain for a potential 
longer-term, game-changing upside? Is there an element here that 
might be far more valuable in 5 to 10 years (e.g., ebook rights 10 
years ago)? Might there be rights or options I can explicitly “carve 
out” and keep? If you can cap the downside (time, capital, etc.) 
and have the confidence, take uncrowded bets on yourself. You 
only need one winning lottery ticket.

MEDITATE FOR A YEAR, GET BENEFITS FOR LIFE?
When Arnold’s movie career first began to gel, he was inundated 
with new opportunities and options. For the first time, he felt 
overly worried and anxious, due to pressures he’d never felt before. 
By sheer coincidence, he met a Transcendental Meditation teacher 
at the beach. “He says, ‘Oh, Arnold, it is not uncommon. It is very 
common. A lot of people go through this. This is why people use 
Transcendental Meditation as one way of dealing with the prob-
lem.’ He was very good in selling it, because he didn’t say that 
it was the only answer. He said it’s just one of many.” The man 
encouraged Arnold to go to Westwood, in L.A., to take a class 
the following Thursday.
  “I went up there, took a class, and I went home after that and 
tried it. I said to myself, ‘I’ve got to give it a shot.’ I did 20 minutes 
in the morning and 20 minutes at night, and I would say within 
14 days, 3 weeks, I got to the point where I could really disconnect 
my mind and stay and find a few seconds of this connection and 
268 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

rejuvenate the mind and learn how to focus more and to calm 
down. I saw the effect right away. I was much more calm about 
all of the challenges that were facing me. I continued doing that 
for a year. By that time, I felt that, ‘I think I have mastered this. I 
think that now I don’t feel overwhelmed anymore.’
  “Even today, I still benefit from that because I don’t merge 
and bring things together and see everything as one big prob-
lem. I take them one challenge at a time. When I go and I study 
my script for a movie, then that time of day when I study my 
script, I don’t let anything else interfere. I just concentrate on that. 
The other thing that I’ve learned is that there are many forms of 
meditation in the world. Like when I study and work really hard, 
where it takes the ultimate amount of concentration, I can only 
do it for 45 minutes, maybe an hour.
  “I also figured out that I could use my workouts as a form of 
meditation because I concentrate so much on the muscle, I have 
my mind inside the bicep when I do my curls. I have my mind 
inside the pectoral muscles when I do my bench press. I’m really 
inside, and it’s like I gain a form of meditation, because you have 
no chance of thinking or concentrating on anything else at that 
t i m e .”

✱ Who do you think of when you hear the word “successful”?
He mentioned several people, including Warren Buffett, Elon 
Musk, Nelson Mandela, and Muhammad Ali, but his final addi-
tion stuck out:
  “Cincinnatus. He was an emperor in the Roman Empire. Cin-
cinnati, the city, by the way, is named after him because he was a 
big idol of George Washington’s. He is a great example of success 
because he was asked to reluctantly step into power and become 
the emperor and to help, because Rome was about to get annihi-
lated by all the wars and battles. He was a farmer. Powerful guy. 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 269

He went and took on the challenge, took over Rome, took over the 
army, and won the war. After they won the war, he felt he’d done 
his mission and was asked to go and be the emperor, and he gave 
the ring back and went back to farming. He didn’t only do this 
once. He did it twice. When they tried to overthrow the empire 
from within, they asked him back and he came back. He cleaned 
up the mess through great, great leadership. He had tremendous 
leadership quality in bringing people together. And again, he gave 
the ring back and went back to farming.” 
NAVAL RAVIKANT

Naval Ravikant (TW: @naval, startupboy.com) is the CEO and 
cofounder of AngelList. He previously co-founded Vast.com 
and Epinions, which went public as part of Shopping.com. He 
is an active angel investor and has invested in more than 100 
companies, including many “unicorn” mega-successes. His deals 
include Twitter, Uber, Yammer, Postmates, Wish, Thumbtack, and 
OpenDNS. He is probably the person I call most for startup-
related advice.

     “The most important trick to be happy is to 
     realize that happiness is a choice that you make 
     and a skill that you develop. You choose to 
     be happy, and then you work at it. It’s just like 
     building muscles.” 

BACK STORY

➢  Naval was raised poor in an immigrant family: “We came to 
   this country [from India] when I was 9 and my brother was 
   11. We had very little. My mother raised us as a single mom 
   in a studio apartment. She worked a menial job by day and 
   then she went to school at night, so we were latchkey kids. 
   . . . A lot of growing up was watching the ideal American 
   lifestyle, but from the other side of the windowpane, with 
   my nose pressed against the glass, saying, ‘I want that, too. 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 271

  I want that for myself and my kids.’ I grew up with a very 
  dark view of the world on the other side of the tracks. . . .”

➢  Naval’s name roughly means “new man” in Sanskrit. His son 
  is named Neo, which means “new” in Greek, is an anagram 
  for “one” (Naval pointed this out to me), and, of course, is 
  well featured in The Matrix.

➢  Many years ago, Naval and I first met because he saw me 
  hitting on his then-girlfriend (unbeknownst to me) at a cof-
  fee shop in San Francisco. He sauntered up with a huge grin 
  and introduced himself.

➢  His brother Kamal is the person who convinced me to 
  “retire” from early tech investing (page 384).

SUCCESSFUL AND HAPPY — DIFFERENT COHORTS?
“If you want to be successful, surround yourself with people who 
are more successful than you are, but if you want to be happy, sur-
round yourself with people who are less successful than you are.”

HANDLING CONFLICT
“The first rule of handling conflict is don’t hang around people 
who are constantly engaging in conflict. . . . All of the value in 
life, including in relationships, comes from compound interest. 
People who regularly fight with others will eventually fight with 
you. I’m not interested in anything that’s unsustainable or even 
hard to sustain, including difficult relationships.”

THE THREE OPTIONS YOU ALWAYS HAVE IN LIFE
“In any situation in life, you only have three options. You always 
have three options. You can change it, you can accept it, or you 
can leave it. What is not a good option is to sit around wishing 
you would change it but not changing it, wishing you would leave 
272 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

it but not leaving it, and not accepting it. It’s that struggle, that 
aversion, that is responsible for most of our misery. The phrase 
that I probably use the most to myself in my head is just one 
word: accept.”

THE FIVE CHIMPS THEORY
“There’s a theory that I call ‘the five chimps theory.’ In zoology, 
you can predict the mood and behavior patterns of any chimp 
by which five chimps they hang out with the most. Choose your 
five chimps carefully.”

LESSONS FROM PHYSICS AND THE RUSSIAN MOB
“I learned [the importance of honesty] from a couple of different 
places. One is, when I grew up, I wanted to be a physicist and I 
idolized Richard Feynman. I read everything by him, technical 
and non-technical, that I could get my hands on. He said: ‘You 
must never, ever fool yourself, and you are the easiest person to 
fo o l .’
  “So the physics grounding is very important because in physics, 
you have to speak truth. You don’t compromise, you don’t negoti-
ate with people, you don’t try and make them feel better. If your 
equation is wrong, it just won’t work. Truth is not determined 
by consensus or popularity—usually, it’s quite the opposite. So I 
think the science background is important. A second is, I grew up 
around some really rough-and-tumble kids in New York, some of 
whom were actually in the Russian mob. I once had an encounter 
where I watched one of them threaten to kill the other.
  “The would-be victim went and hid, and then finally, he let 
the aggressor into his house after the aggressor promised him: 
‘No, I’m not going to kill you.’ Honesty was such a strong vir-
tue between them that even when they were ready to kill each 
other, they would take each other’s word for things. It went above 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 273

everything. Even though it was honesty in a mob context, I real-
ized how important that is in relationships.”

HONESTY AS CORE FOUNDATIONAL VALUE
Here’s a brief story for comedic relief, and keep in mind that we 
both happily live in San Francisco.
  TIM: “You never hesitate to say what’s on your mind. I can 
see how that might be misinterpreted by people who are used to 
polite, ‘uh-huh,’ nod-nod conversation. I remember once, you 
and I were both invited to a dinner, and there were a lot of people 
neither of us had met. You were standing in a group chatting over 
wine, and I showed up with this pretty unusual getup. I had on 
this turquoise long-sleeved shirt, which I never wore. I don’t know 
if you remember this.”
  NAVAL: “I do not.”
  TIM: “I had jeans on, and these brown, odd-looking dress shoes 
that kind of looked like bowling shoes. You looked at me, smiled, 
and asked, ‘Why are you dressed like a gay banker?’ Then, this 
woman that neither of us had ever met started defending me, and 
I was like, ‘Oh God, here we go. . . .’ ”
  NAVAL: “The honesty thing is a core foundational value.”
  TIM: “In fairness, I totally did.”

EMBARRASSED INTO STARTING HIS FIRST COMPANY
“I was working at this tech company called @Home Network, 
and I told everybody around me—my boss, my coworkers, my 
friends—‘In Silicon Valley, all of these other people are starting 
companies. It looks like they can do it. I’m going to go start a 
company. I’m just here temporarily. I’m an entrepreneur.’ I told 
everybody, and I wasn’t meaning to actually trick myself into it. 
It wasn’t a deliberate, calculated thing.
274 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  “I was just venting, talking out loud, being overly honest. But 
I actually didn’t [start a company]. This was 1996. It was a much 
scarier, more difficult proposition to start a company then. Sure 
enough, everyone started coming up to me and saying, ‘What are 
you still doing here? I thought you were leaving to start a com-
pany?’ ‘Wow, you’re still here. That was a while ago that you said 
that.’ I was literally embarrassed into starting my own company.”

NOW, USE THAT TECHNIQUE ON PURPOSE
“Tell your friends that you’re a happy person. Then you’ll be 
forced to conform to it. You’ll have a consistency bias. You have 
to live up to it. Your friends will expect you to be a happy person.”

90% FEAR, 10% DESIRE
“I find that 90% of thoughts that I have are fear-based. The other 
10% are probably desire-based. There’s a great definition I read 
that says, ‘Enlightenment is the space between your thoughts,’ 
which means that enlightenment isn’t this thing you achieve after 
30 years sitting in a corner on a mountaintop. It’s something you 
can achieve moment to moment, and you can be a certain per-
centage enlightened every single day.”

✱ Naval’s best $100 or less purchase?
“The teppanyaki grill. It’s a little tabletop grill [search “Presto 
22-inch electric griddle”]. What I learned is that for food, the 
freshness and quality of the food going straight from the grill to 
your mouth is way more important than what you do with it. For 
example, in most recipes, we sauce the heck out of everything, 
we cream it, we overprepare it, and we overprocess it because it’s 
sitting under a heat lamp for 10 minutes.”
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 275

✱ What would you put on a billboard?
“I don’t know if I have messages to send to the world, but there 
are messages I like to send to myself at all times. One message that 
really stuck with me when I figured this out is: “Desire is a con-
tract you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what 
you want.” I don’t think most of us realize that’s what it is. I think 
we go about desiring things all day long, and then wondering why 
we’re unhappy. So, I like to stay aware of that because then I can 
choose my desires very carefully. I try not to have more than one 
big desire in my life at any given time, and I also recognize that 
as the axis of my suffering. I realize that that’s where I’ve chosen 
to be unhappy. I think that is an important one.”
  TF: Naval first encountered a variation of the above bolded text 
on a now-extinct blog called Delusion Damage.

NAVAL’S LAWS
The below is Naval’s response to the question “Are there any 
quotes you live by or think of often?” These are gold. Take the 
time necessary to digest them.
  “These aren’t all quotes from others. Many are maxims that 
I’ve carved for myself.”

  ➞ Be present above all else.

  ➞ Desire is suffering (Buddha).

  ➞ Anger is a hot coal that you hold in your hand while wait-
    ing to throw it at someone else (Buddhist saying).

  ➞ If you can’t see yourself working with someone for life, 
    don’t work with them for a day.

  ➞ Reading (learning) is the ultimate meta-skill and can be 
    traded for anything else.
276 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  ➞ All the real benefits in life come from compound interest.

  ➞ Earn with your mind, not your time.

  ➞ 99% of all effort is wasted.

  ➞ Total honesty at all times. It’s almost always possible to be 
    honest and positive.

  ➞ Praise specifically, criticize generally (Warren Buffett).

  ➞ Truth is that which has predictive power.

  ➞ Watch every thought. (Always ask, “Why am I having this 
    thought?”)

  ➞ All greatness comes from suffering.

  ➞ Love is given, not received.

  ➞ Enlightenment is the space between your thoughts 
    (Eckhart Tolle).

  ➞ Mathematics is the language of nature.

  ➞ Every moment has to be complete in and of itself.

A FEW OF NAVAL’S TWEETS THAT ARE 
TOO GOOD TO LEAVE OUT

  “What you choose to work on, and who you choose to work 
  with, are far more important than how hard you work.”

  “Free education is abundant, all over the Internet. It’s the 
  desire to learn that’s scarce.”

  “If you eat, invest, and think according to what the ‘news’ 
  advocates, you’ll end up nutritionally, financially, and 
  morally bankrupt.”
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 277

  “We waste our time with short-term thinking and busywork. 
  Warren Buffett spends a year deciding and a day acting. That 
  act lasts decades.”

  “The guns aren’t new. The violence isn’t new. The connected 
  cameras are new, and that changes everything.”

  “You get paid for being right first, and to be first, you can’t 
  wait for consensus.”

  “My one repeated learning in life: ‘There are no adults.’ 
  Everyone’s making it up as they go along. Figure it out 
  yourself, and do it.”

  “A busy mind accelerates the passage of subjective time.”

MONKEYS ON A SPINNING ROCK
On why Naval no longer has a quest for immortality:
  “If you study even the smallest bit of science, you will realize 
that, for all practical purposes, we are nothing. We’re basically 
monkeys on a small rock orbiting a small, backwards star in a 
huge galaxy, which is in an absolutely staggeringly gigantic uni-
verse, which itself may be part of a gigantic multiverse.
  “This universe has been around for probably 10 billion years or 
more, and will be around for tens of billion years afterwards. So 
your existence, my existence, is just infinitesimal. It is like a firefly 
blinking once in the night. Nothing that we do lasts. Eventually 
you will fade, your works will fade, your children will fade, your 
thoughts will fade, this planet will fade, the sun will fade . . . it 
will all be gone.
  “There are entire civilizations that we remember now with just 
one or two words like ‘Sumerian’ or ‘Mayan.’ Do you know any 
Sumerians or Mayans? Do you hold any of them in high regard or 
esteem? Have they outlived their natural lifespan somehow? No.
278 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

  “If you don’t believe in an afterlife, then you [should realize] 
that this is such a short and precious life, it is really important that 
you don’t spend it being unhappy. There is no excuse for spending 
most of your life in misery. You’ve only got 70 years out of the 
50 billion or however long the universe is going to be around.”


               APPENDIX


Ep. xciv. deals, on the whole, with the question whether doctrines 
without precepts are enough for the student and the philosopher; 
Ep. xcv. whether precepts without doctrines will suffice. Seneca 
concludes that they are both necessary and are complementary 
to one another, especially in view of the complicated life which 
one is called upon to live, with its many duties and choices. The 
terms discussed, with some of the Greek original definitions, may 
be summed up as follows:

(1) The outward expressions of ἐπιστήμη scientia( , knowledge) 
and of the κοιναὶ ἔννοιαι (notiones communes, προλήψεις, innate 
ideas) are found in the form of ἀξιώματα (pronuntiata, incontro-
vertible statements), δόγματα (placita, decreta, scita, doctrines, 
tenets, dogmas, principles). Determined by ὅροι (definitiones, 
definitions), they are tested by their ἀξία honestum( , moral 
value), by the κριτήριον (norma iudicii, standard of judgement) 
or κανών (lex, regula, etc.), and by the ὀρθὸς λόγος (recta ratio, 
universal law, etc.). By such means the doctrines of philosophy 
are contrasted with δόξα (opinio) and with a κατάληψις (cognitio 
or comprehensio) which falls short of completeness and perfec-
tion. Conduct which results from a thorough understanding and 
performance of such doctrines is κατόρθωμα (τέλειον καθῆκον, 
perfectum officium, “absolute duty”.

(2) Thepars  praeceptiva (παραινετική) of philosophy, which deals 
with «average duty» (καθῇκον, commune or medium officium), is 
approved, among others, by Posidonius, Cicero (see the De Offi-
ciis), and Seneca. It is related to active living and to the ἀδιάφορα 
(media or indifferentia) (see Subject Index) which play so large a 
rôle in the individual’s daily existence. This department of “coun-
sel,” “admonition,” or “advice” has many forms. For παραίνεσις 
(monitio) are needed: the λόγος προτρεπτικός (exhortatio), τόπος 
ὑποθετικός (suasio), ἀποτροπή (dissuasio), ἐπιτίμησις (obiurga-
tio), λόγος παραμυθητικός (consolatio), αἰτιολογία (causarum 
inquisitio), ἠθολογία (descriptio), and all the gamut of precepts 
which run from blame to praise. These are reinforced by ἀπόδειξις 
(probatio, argumentum, proof) and by such helps as χρεῖαι, 
ἀπομνημονεύματα (sententiae, proverbs, maxims).

By such stages of advancement, προκοπή (progressio), and rely-
ing upon παραδείγματα (exempla), one rises, through practical 
precepts and the observance of duties, to an appreciation of the 
virtues, the contemplative mastery of the Universe, and to the 
Supreme Good, conformity with Nature (ὁμολογουμένως τῇ 
φύσει ζῆν, vivere convenienter naturae).
                  INDEX OF 
           PROPER NAMES

A
 Academic school of Philosophy, its lofty ideals, xxix. 11; a definition 
    of happiness, lxxi. 18; scepticism of, lxxxviii. 44 f.
 L. Accius (Roman poet, 2nd century B.C.), lviii. 5
 Achaia (province of Greece), earthquakes in, xci. 9 f.
 Acheron (the lake), lv. 6
 Achilles, age of, compared with that of Patroclus, lxxxviii. 6
 Aegialus, a farmer on the old estate of Scipio, lxxxvi. 14 ff.
 Aelius Sejanus (prime minister of Tiberius), dangers of 
    acquaintance with, lv. 3
 Aetna, celebrated by poets, li. 1; proposed ascent of, by Lucilius, 
    lxxix. 2 ff.
 Africa, Pompey in, xciv. 65; Cato’s march through the deserts of, civ. 
    33; crops in, cxiv. 26; marbles from, cxv. 8
 Agamemnon, his desire to return home to Mycenae, lxvi. 26
 M. Vipsanius Agrippa (counsellor of Augustus) on harmony in 
    government, xciv. 46 f.
 Alban villa (Seneca’s), visit to, cxxiii. 1 f.
 Alexander the Great (356-323 B.C.), sayings of, liii. 10, lix. 12; 
    crimes and tragedy of, due to drink, lxxxiii. 19 ff.; his desire to 
    conquer the globe, xci. 17; his conquests of Greece, Persia, and 
    India, xciv. 62 f.; cxiii. 29 f.; cxix. 7
 Alexandria, fast sailing ships from, lxxvii. 1 f.
 Anacharsis (Scythian philosopher, fl. 600 B.C.), discussed as the 
    inventor of the potter’s wheel xc. 31
 Ancus Marcius (Roman king), doubtful parentage of, cviii. 30
284  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

 Antipater (of Tarsus, Stoic philosopher, 2nd century B.C.), 
    refutation of a Peripatetic syllogism, lxxxvii. 38 ff.; his view 
    regarding non-essentials, xcii. 5
 M. Antonius (friend of Caesar and rival of Augustus), ruined by 
    wine and Cleopatra, lxxxiii. 25
 M. Gavius Apicius (epicure, age of Tiberius), extravagance of, xcv. 
    42; gluttony of, cxx. 19
 Apion (grammarian, 1st century A.D.), his opinion concerning the 
    authorship of the Homeric cycle, lxxxviii. 40 f.
 Appius Claudius Caecus (censor 312 B.C.), source for archaic 
    oratorical style, cxiv. 13
 Archedemus (Stoic of Tarsus, second century B.C.), authority of, 
    cxxi. 1
 Ardea (ancient city of Latium, capital of the Rutulians), capture of, 
    xci. 16; country-place of Lucilius, cv. 1
 Argos (kingdom in the Peloponnesus), a fictitious king of, lxxx. 7
 Aristo (of Chios, Stoic philosopher, 3rd century B.C.), saying of, 
    xxxvi. 3; weeds out many departments of philosophy, lxxxix. 
    13; on the superfluity of precepts, xciv. 1 ff.; on admiration of 
    superfluous things, cxv. 8 f.
 Aristo (philosopher, identity unknown), anecdotes of, xxix. 6
 Aristotle (384-322 B.C.), debt to Socrates, vi. 6; on genus and 
    species, lviii. 9; on cause, form, matter, etc., lxv. 4
 L. Arruntius (cos. A.D. 6), imitator of Sallust’s style, cxiv. 17 ff.
 Asclepiades (Greek physician at Rome, 2nd cent. B.C.), xcv. 9
 Asia, earthquakes in, xci. 9
 Asinus Gallus (son of Asinus Pollio), dangers of friendship with, lv. 3
 Athenodorus (of Tarsus, librarian at Pergamus, friend of Cato, on 
    frankness toward the gods, x. 5
 Athens, visited by wise men from the East, lviii. 31
 Attalus (Stoic philosopher, teacher of Seneca), on friendship, ix. 7; 
    on the memory of lost friends, lxiii. 5; on the value of pain, lxvii. 
                                 Index of Proper Names 285

    15; simile used by, lxxii. 8; on “returning the chalice to our own 
    lips,” lxxxi. 22; on philosophical ambition, cviii. passim; on the 
    worthlessness of riches, cx. 14 ff.
 T. Pomponius Atticus, made immortal by Cicero’s correspondence, 
    xxi. 4; regularity of his correspondence, cxviii. 1
 Augustus (Roman Emperor), confidence in the hard drinkers Piso 
    and Cossus, lxxxiii. 14 f.; delegates power to Maecenas, cxiv. 6

B
 Baba and Isio, futility of, xv. 9
 Liber (Bacchus), travels of, xciv. 63
 Baiae, luxuries of, li. 1 ff., lv. passim, lvii. 1
 Aufidius Bassus (perhaps the historian whose work the Elder Pliny 
    continued, see Plin. Ep. iii. 5. 6), illness of, xxx. 1 ff.
 Decimus Iunius Brutus (c. 84-43 B.C., see n.), cowardly death of, 
    lxxxii. 12 f.
 M. Iunius Brutus (author, friend of Cicero, and slayer of Caesar), on 
    precepts, xcv. 45
 Acilius Buta (temp. Tiberius), night life of, cxxii. 10 ff.

C
 Caecilius (temp. Cicero), penuriousness of, cxviii. 2
 Caelius (see note ad loc.) quoted, cxiii. 26
 Caesar (Augustus, the Emperor). See Augustus.
 Gaius Caesar (Caligula, emperor 31-41 A.D.), slain by Chaerea, iv. 
    7; witticism of, lxxvii. 18
 C. Julius Caesar, hostility to Cato, xiv. 12 f., xxiv. 8; villas of, li. 11; 
    conqueror of Pompey, lxxxiii. 12, ambition of, xciv. 65 f.; relations 
    with Cato the Younger, xcv. 70; part in Clodian trial, xcvii. 2, 8; 
    civ. 29 f.; cxviii. 2
 Callistus (a favourite of the Emperor Claudius), disdains his former 
    master, xlvii. 9
286  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

 Licinius Calvus (see note ad loc.), xciv. 25
 Cambyses (son of Cyrus the Great, king of the Medes and Persians, 
    6th century B.C.), madness of, lxxxvi. 1
 Campania, thoughts inspired by the sight of, xlix. 1; its effect upon 
    Hannibal, li. 5; home-sickness for, lv. 8
 Candavian desert, xxxi. 9
 Canopus, vices of, li. 3
 Capreae (modern Capri, the outpost of the bay of Naples), lxxvii. 2
 Gaius Cassius (one of the murderers of Caesar), temperate habits of 
    lxxxiii. 12
 Cato, “wisdom” of, quoted, xciv. 27; cxix. 2
 M. Porcius Cato (the Elder), effect of the mob upon, vii. 6; model 
    for good conduct, xi. 10; simple life of, lxxxvi. 10; his scorn of 
    trappings, lxxxvii. 9 ff., xxv. 6; nobility of, xcv. 72; civ. 21
 M. Porcius Cato (the Younger, d. 46 B.C.), his glory, xiii. 14; bravery, 
    xiv. 12 ff.; last moments, xxiv. 6 ff.; scorn of loose living, li. 12; as 
    species, lviii. 12; deserving of honour, lxiv. 10; heroic suicide of, 
    lxvii. 7, 13; lxx. 19, 22; defeat of, lxxi. 8, 10, 11; obedience to fate, 
    lxxi. 16 f.; dictum of, lxxi. 15; his courage in the face of Caesar 
    and Pompey, xcv. 69 ff.; his part in the trial of Clodius, xcvii. 1 ff.; 
    heroism of, xcviii. 12; civ. 21; conduct during Civil War, ib. 29ff.; 
    used as a dialectic illustration, cxvii. 13; contrasted with Vatinius, 
    cxviii. 4 and cxx. 19; quoted, cxxii. 2
 Catulus (cos. 78 B.C.), witticism of, xcvii. 6
 Cerberus, false ideas concerning, xxiv. 18 ff.
 Chaerea, Cassius, murderer of Caligula, iv. 7
 Charinus, archon at Athens, xviii. 9
 Charondas (Sicilian law-giver, 6th century B.C.), xc. 6
 Charybdis (between Italy and Sicily, opposite to Scylla), phenomena 
    of, lxxix. 1 f.
 Chelidon (a eunuch of Cleopatra), richness of, lxxxvii. 16
 Chimaera (see note ad loc.), cxiii. 9 f.
                                Index of Proper Names 287

Chrysippus (successor of Cleanthes as head of the Stoic school), 
   saying of, ix. 14; advice of, xxii. 11, xxxiii. 4; civ. 22; utters great 
   words, cviii. 38; on the source of muscular activity, cxiii. 23 f.
Chrysippus (unknown), victim of greetings, lvi. 3
M. Tullius Cicero, his tribute to philosophy, xvii. 2; confers 
   immortality upon Atticus, xxi. 4; his deliberate speech, xl. 11; his 
   opinion of the lyric poets, xlix. 5; on the use of essentia, lviii. 6; 
   as species, lviii. 12; quoted in regard to the trial of Clodius, xcvii. 
   3 ff.; style and rank of, c. 7 ff.; as translator, cvii. 10; quoted (from 
   the De Re Publica), cviii. 30 ff.; on rhetorical subtleties, cxi. 1; 
   style of, cxiv. 16; advice to Atticus, cxviii. 1 f.
Tillius Cimber (one of the conspirators against Caesar), his 
   inordinate love of liquor, lxxxiii. 12 f.
Claranus (a friend of Seneca), his heroic conduct during illness, 
   lxvi. 1-4
Cleanthes (successor of Zeno as head of the Stoic school), disciple of 
   Zeno, vi. 6; dicta of, xxxiii. 4 ff.; his humble station, xliv. 3; object 
   of veneration, lxiv. 10; on the relation of precepts to general 
   principles of philosophy, xciv. 4 ff.; hymn of, cvii. 10 f.; on rules of 
   poetry, cviii. 10; on the source of muscular activity, cxiii. 23 f.
P. Clodius Pulcher (d. 52 B.C.), defendant in adultery charge, xcvii. 
   2 ff.
Ti. Coruncanius (cos. 280 B.C.), source for archaic oratorical style, 
   cxiv. 13
L. Licinius Crassus (b. 140 B.C.), source for oratorical vocabulary, 
   cxiv. 13
M. Licinius Crassus (the triumvir), death of, iv. 7; opponent of Cato, 
   civ. 29; riches of, cxix. 9
Crates (of Thebes, Cynic philosopher c. 300 B.C.), his advice to a 
   young man, x. 1
Croesus, captivity of, xlvii. 12
Cumae, lv. 2
288  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

 C. Scribonius Curio (cos. 76 B.C.), source for oratorical vocabulary, 
    cxiv. 13
 Cynic School of Philosophy, its high standards, xxix. 11; free speech, 
    xxix. 1
 Cyprus, often wasted by earthquakes, xci. 9
 Cyrenaic school (precursor of Epicureanism), remove physics and 
    logic, and are content with ethics alone, lxxxix. 12

D
 Dahae (see n.), objects of Roman conquest, lxxi. 37
 Darius (king of Persia), xciv. 63; cxix. 7
 Darius, the mother of, in captivity, xlvii. 12
 P. Decius Mus (both father and son, heroes of the Latin wars, 4th 
    century B.C.), heroism and self-sacrifice of, lxvii. 9
 Demetrius Poliorcetes (acquired control of Athens 307 B.C.), 
    conversation of, ix. 18 f.
 Demetrius (Cynic philosopher and friend of Seneca), consistent 
    simplicity of, xx. 9; companion of Seneca, lxii. 3; definition of an 
    untroubled existence, lxvii. 14; his contempt for gossip, xci. 19
 Democritus (Greek atomic philosopher, 5th and 4th centuries B.C.), 
    on the importance of the individual, vii. 10; supposed madness 
    of, lxxix. 14; discussed as the inventor of the arch, xc. 32 f.
 M. Curius Dentatus (cos. 290 B.C.), sternness of, cxx. 19
 Dexter (the tribune who executed Lepidus), iv. 7
 Didymus (surnamed “Brazen-Bowels,” scholar of Alexandria, fl. 
    1st century B.C.), his voluminous and variegated writings, on 
    Aeneas, Anacreon, Sappbo, etc., lxxxviii. 37
 Diogenes (Cynic philosopher, 4th century B.C.), his free speech, 
    xxix. 1; slavery, xlvii. 12; contrasted as a philosopher with 
    Daedalus the inventor, xc. 14
 Dossennus (ancient Latin comic writer, or a type in the Atellane 
    farce), inscription on the tomb of, lxxxix. 7
                                 Index of Proper Names 289

E
 Egypt, marbles from, cxv. 8
 Egyptians, customs of bandits among the, li. 13
 Q. Ennius (Roman poet, 239-169 B.C.), lviii. 5; verses on Scipio 
    Africanus, cviii. 32 f.; indebtedness to Homer, ib. 34
 Epicurean, the spirit of an, xlviii. 1; a philosophy of leisure, lxviii. 10; 
    void, lxxii. 9; definition of philosophy as twofold, lxxxix. 11
 Epicurus (founder of the school, 342-279 B.C.), his influence, vi. 
    6, xxi. 3; self-denial, xviii. 6 ff.; addressed, xx. 11; confers glory, 
    xxi. 3 ff.; wide application of his sayings, viii. 8, xxi. 9, xxxiii. 2; 
    arguments concerning mythology, xxiv. 18; bravery, xxxiii. 2; 
    Lucilius’ style resembles his, xlvi. 1; quoted, ii. 5 f., iv. 10, vii. 11, 
    viii. 7, ix. 1 and 20, xi. 8, xii. 10, xiii. 16, xiv. 17, xv. 9, xvi. 7, xvii. 
    11, xviii. 14, xix. 10, xx. 9, xxi. 3 ff., xxii. 6 and 14, xxiii. 9, xxiv. 
    22 ff., xxv. 5 f., xxvi. 8, xxvii. 9, xxviii. 9, xxix. 10, xxx. 14, lii. 3 
    f.; on the joy of suffering, lxvi. 18, lxvii. 15; on the painless body 
    and the serene mind, lxvi. 45; on the different classes of goods, 
    lxvi. 47 f.; late-won renown of, lxxix. 15 f.; on the payment of 
    obligations, lxxxi. 11; declares virtue alone not sufficient for 
    happiness, lxxxv. 18; on calm amid pain, xcii. 25; quoted, xcvii. 
    13, 15
 Eretrian school (somewhat inclined toward the Socratic), scepticism 
    of, lxxxviii. 44 f.
 Euripedes (Greek tragic poet), quoted, xlix. 12; anecdote of, cxv. 15 f.

F
 Papirius Fabianus (an adviser and teacher of Seneca), his modesty, 
    xi. 4; deliberate style, xl. 12; calmness of his audience, lii. 11; 
    authority for the use of the word essentia, lviii. 6; style of, c. 
    passim
 Fabii (clan famous in early Roman history), sacrifice in behalf of the 
    state, lxxxii. 20
290  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

 Q. Fabius Maximus (hero of second Punic war), simple life of, 
    lxxxvi. 10
 C. Fabricius Luscinus (temp. Pyrrhus), self-restraint of, xcviii. 13; 
    loyalty and temperance of, cxx. 6; plainness of, cxx. 19
 Felicio, pet slave of Seneca, son of Philositus, xii. 3
 Fenestella (Augustan antiquarian) on the death of Romulus, cviii. 31
 Flaccus (friend of Lucilius), death of, lxiii. 1 ff.
 Floralia (Roman festival, April 28 to May 3), tributes to Cato during 
    the, xcvii. 8

G
 Gallio (brother of Seneca), illness of, in Achaia, civ. 1 and note ad 
    loc.
 Genius (the “patron saint” of Roman men), cx. 1
 German (gladiator), revolting suicide of a, lxx. 20
 Germans, bound-up hair of, cxxiv. 22
 Germany, training of children in, xxxvi. 7
 Julius Graecinus (man of noble character, slain by Caligula), 
    witticism of, xxix. 6
 Graian Alps, xxxi. 9
 C. Sempronius Gracchus (tribune 123 B.C.), source for oratorical 
    vocabulary, cxiv. 13
 Greeks, the word oestrus used by, lviii. 2; proverbs of, xxxiii. 7; 
    headlong style of, xl. 11; as species of man, lviii. 12; their idea 
    of the poet, lviii. 17; their use of paradoxes (inopinata) in 
    philosophy, lxxxi. 11; futilities of dialectic, lxxxii. 8 f.; their use of 
    indifferentia, lxxxii. 10; encyclic arts of the, lxxxviii. 23; definition 
    of wisdom, lxxxix. 7; definition of orbatio, lxxxvii. 39; on calm, 
    xcii. 6; a proverb of the, cxiv. 1; preceptive philosophy of, xcv. 1; 
    ib. 10; association with their philosophers, civ. 21; tragic poets, 
    quoted, cxv. 14 f.
                                 Index of Proper Names 291

H
 Hannibal, weakened by Campanian luxuries, li 5 f.; contrasted with 
    Scipio, lxxxvi. 3
 Harpaste, blindness of, l. 2 f.
 Q. Haterius (orator of the Early Empire), rapidity of, xl. 10
 Hecato (a philosopher of Rhodes and pupil of Panaetius, c. 100 B.C.), 
    on hope and fear, v. 7; on self-knowledge, vi. 7; on love, ix. 6
 Hecuba (Queen of Troy), captivity of, xlvii. 12
 Helen, age of, compared with Hecuba’s, lxxxviii. 6
 Hephaestion (volcanic region in Lycia, in Asia Minor), lxxix. 3
 Heraclitus (philosopher of Ephesus, c. 500 B.C.), sayings of, xii. 7, 
    lviii. 23
 Hercules, travels of, xciv. 63
 Hermarchus (successor of Epicurus as head of the school), close 
    adherence to Epicurus, vi. 6; dicta of, xxxiii. 4; philosopher of the 
    third grade, lii. 4
 Herodotus (Greek historian, 5th century B.C.), reminiscnece of, vi. 5
 Hesiod, reminiscence of, i. 5; misquoted by Sabinus, xxvii. 6; 
    compared with Homer in seniority, lxxxviii. 6
 Hippocrates (“Father of Medicine,” 5th cent. B.C.), xcv. 9; on the 
    health of women, ib. 20
 Homer, called the poet by the Greeks, lviii. 17; on the rapid and 
    gentle styles, xl. 2; misquoted by Sabinus, xxvii. 6; claimed 
    by various schools of philosophy as a witness in their behalf, 
    lxxxviii. 5 f.; in various connexions, lxxxviii. passim; mentions 
    the potter’s wheel, xc. 31; indebtedness of Ennius to, cviii. 34
 Horatius (defender of Rome against Tarquins), heroism of, cxx. 7
 Q. Horatius Flaccus (Roman poet, 65-8 B.C.), quoted, lxxxvi. 13, 
    cxix. 13 f.; cxx. 20 f.
292  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

I
 Idomeneus (prominent in state affairs and a contemporary of 
    Epicurus), correspondence with Epicurus, xxi. 3 ff., xxii. 5
 Ixion, torments of, in the lower world, xxiv. 18 ff.

J
 Jugurtha (African prince, conquered by Marius), xciv. 66
 Juno, dedications to, xcv. 47; patroness of women, cx. 1
 Jupiter, amid the Stoic conflagration, ix. 16; happiness of, xxv. 4; 
    popularly called the father of Alexander, lix. 12; comparison of, 
    with the ideal sage, lxxiii. 12 ff.; dedications to, xcv. 47; ib. 72; 
    addressed in hymn of Cleanthes, cvii. 10 f.; happiness of, cx. 18; 
    independence of cxix. 7
 Juvenal, compared, xiv. 9 n.

L
 Lacon, Spartan boy who refused to do menial service, lxxvii. 14 f.
 Lacones (Spartans under Leonidas at Thermopylae), lxxxii. 20 ff.
 Ladas, a traditionally swift runner, lxxxv. 4
 C. Laelius Sapiens (statesman and friend of Scipio the Younger), 
    effect of the mob upon, vii. 6; a model for mankind, xxv. 6; 
    worthy of honour, lxiv. 10; sanity of, xcv. 72; civ. 21
 Latin Language, narrow limits of, lviii. passim; technical terms in, 
    xcv. 65
 Aemilius Lepidus (favourite of Caligula, slain by him A.D. 39), iv. 7
 Aebutius Liberalis (friend of Seneca), disconsolate over the Lyons 
    conflagration of c. 64 A.D., xci. passim
 Drusus Libo (duped into dreams of empire, committed suicide A.D. 
    16), contemplated self-destruction of, lxx. 10
 Licinus (native of Gaul; appointed govenor in 15 B.C.), riches of, 
    cxix. 9; cxx. 19
                                 Index of Proper Names 293

 Liternum (town on sea-coast of Campania near Cumae), abode of 
    Scipio in exile, li. 11, lxxxvi. 3
 T. Livius (the historian, age of Augustus), comparison of his style 
    with that of Lucilius, xlvi. 1; reckoned as both historian and 
    philosopher, c. 9
 Lucilius, procurator in Sicily, xxxi. 9 ff., li. 1; b. at Pompeii or Naples, 
    xlix. 1; a Roman knight, xliv. 2 ff.; interested in philosophy, 
    passim, esp. xl. 2; author, xlvi. 1; poetry of, viii. 10, xxiv. 21. See 
    Introduction, p. ix.
 T. Lucretius Carus (Roman poet, 1st century B.C.), as species of 
    man, lviii. 12; quoted xcv. 11; on corporeality, cvi. 8; on fear, cx. 
    6 f.
 Lucrine oysters (from a lake near the Bay of Naples), delicate taste 
    of, lxxviii. 23
 Lugudunum (capital of Gaul, now Lyons), destruction of, xci. 
    passim
 Lycurgus (of Sparta, 9th century B.C. ?), giver of laws, xc. 6

M
 Macedonia, earthquakes in, xci. 9
 Maeander (river in Phrygia, Asia Minor), tortuous course of, civ. 15
 C. Cilnius Maecenas (prime minister of Augustus), character of, 
    xix. 9 f.; quoted, ib.; witty saying of, xcii. 35; his womanly fear of 
    death, ci. 10 ff.; careless speech of, cxiv. passim; daintiness of, cxx. 
    19
 M. Tullius Marcellinus (a friend of Seneca), faults of, xxix. 1 ff.; 
    suicide of, lxxvii. 5 ff.
 C. Marius (rival of Sulla), the massacres of his epoch, xlvii. 10; villas 
    of, li. 11; political and martial ambition of, xciv. 66
 Iunius (?) Marullus (see note ad loc.), consolation addressed to, 
    xcix. 1 ff.
294  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

 M. Valerius Messala Corvinus (statesman and man of letters, b. 59 
    B.C.) describes Aetna, li. 1
 Maximus (a friend of Seneca), lxxxvii. 2 ff.
 Medi, objects of Roman conquest, lxxi. 37
 Megaric school, scepticism of, lxxxviii. 44 f.
 Menelaus (Homeric hero), actor posing as, lxxx. 8
 Meta Sudans (see ad loc.), the haunt of noisy pedlars, lvi. 4
 Q. Caecilius Metellus Numidicus (Roman general and statesman, 
    retired into exile, 100 B.C.), conduct in exile, xxiv. 4
 Metrodorus (follower of Epicurus), vi. 6; xiv. 17; his simple life, 
    xviii. 9; dicta, xxxiii. 4; a genius of the second grade, lii. 3; his 
    modest manner of life, lxxix. 15 f.; on the thankfulness of the 
    sage, lxxxi. 11; quoted, xcviii. 9; on the pleasure of sadness, xcix. 
    25 ff.
 Metronax (philosopher), lectures by, lxxvi. 4; death of, xciii. 1 (and 
    note)
 Mithridates (king of Pontus), conquered by Pompey, xciv. 65
 Iulius Montanus (poet and favourite of Tiberius), anecdote of, cxxii. 
    11 f.
 Mucius Scaevola (hero of Roman-Etruscan wars), puts his hand into 
    the flames, xxiv. 5; heroism of, xcviii. 12

N
 Cn. Naevius (early Roman writer of drama) quoted, cii. 16
 Naples, memories of, xlix. 1; journey to, lvii. 1
 P. Ovidius Naso (Roman poet, age of Augustus), quoted, xxxiii. 4
 Natalis (early Empire), vileness and richness of, lxxxvii. 16
 Pinarius Natta (see note ad loc.), cxxii. 11 f.
 Nausiphanes (disciple of Pyrrho the Sceptic, 4th century B.C.), on 
    seeming and non-being, lxxxviii. 43 f.
 Neapolis (now Naples), a place for retirement, lxviii. 5; theatre at, 
    lxxvi. 4
                                 Index of Proper Names 295

 Neptune, the god to whom the sailor prays, lxxiii. 5; invoked by the 
    Rhodian pilot, lxxxv. 33
 Nesis (islet in the bay of Naples), liii. 1
 Nestor (Homeric hero), long life of, lxxvii. 20
 Nile, the distracting noise of its waters, lvi. 3; rising in summer, civ. 
    15
 Niobe, restraint of, in her mourning, lxiii. 2
 Nomentum (Latin town 14 m. N.E. of Rome), Seneca’s villa at, civ. 1 
    ff., cx. 1
 Numidian outriders, cxxiii. 7

O
 P. Ovidius Naso (Roman poet, 43 B.C.-18 A.D.), his description of 
    Aetna, lxxix. 5; quoted. xc. 20; on the lower order gods, cx. 1; on 
    gold, cxv. 13
 P. Octavius (gourmand, age of Tiberius), bids against Apicius, xcv. 
    42

P
 Pacuvius (a vice-governor of Syria under Tiberius), mock-funerals 
    of, xii. 8
 Panaetius (head of Stoic school, 2nd century B.C.), dicta assigned 
    to, xxxiii. 4; on love, cxvi. 5 f.
 Paphus (city on west coast of Cyprus), often wrecked by 
    earthquakes, xci. 9
 Sextus Papinius (an Early Empire night-liver), cxxii. 15 f.
 Parmenides (Greek philosopher, fl. 500 B.C.), on the One, lxxxviii. 
    44 f.
 Parthenope (another name for Naples), favourite place of Lucilius, 
    liii. 1
 Parthia, kings of, xvii. 11
296  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

 Parthians (tribe E. of Euphrates), allusion to the defeat and death of 
    Crassus, 53 B.C., iv. 7; training of Parthian children, xxxvi. 7; as 
    species of man, lviii. 12; flowing hair of, cxxiv. 22
 Paulina (wife of Seneca), civ. 2 ff., note ad loc., and Introduction, 
    vol. i.
 Pedo Albinovanus (poet, contemporary of Ovid), anecdote of, cxxii. 
    15 f.
 Penelope, moral character of, lxxxviii. 8
 Pennine Alps, xxxi. 9
 Peripatetics, their dislike for the common herd, xxix. 11; referred 
    to in jest, ibid. 6; their softening of Stoic paradoxes, lxxxv. 3, 
    31, etc.; their objections to Stoic syllogisms, lxxxvii. 12, 38; 
    their establishment of economic philosophy, lxxxix. 10; their 
    interpretation of emotion, cxvi. 1; on wisdom and being wise, 
    cxvii. 11 f.
 Persians, bravery of, xxxiii. 2; objects of Roman conquest, lxxi. 37
 Phaedo (contemporary of Plato) quoted, xciv. 41
 Phalaris, tyrant of Agrigentum in Sicily (6th century B.C.), the 
    bronze bull of, lxvi. 18
 Pharius, pacemaker for Seneca, lxxxiii. 4
 Phidias (Athenian sculptor, 5th century B.C.), ix. 5; variety of his 
    materials, lxxxv. 40
 Philip (of Macedon, father of Alexander), conquests of, xciv. 62
 Phrygian priests (worshippers of Cybele), enthusiasm of, cviii. 7
 Lucius Piso (Roman official under Augustus), abnormal 
    drunkenness of, lxxxiii. 14. f.
 L. Munatius Plancus (gov. of Transalpine Gaul, 43 B.C.), founder of 
    Lyons, xci. 14
 Plato (Athenian philosopher, 428-341 B.C.), debt to Socrates, vi. 6; 
    read by Cato, xxiv. 6; ennobled by philosophy, xliv. 3 f.; captive, 
    xlvii. 12; theory of ideas, lxv. 7; worthy of honour, lxiv. 10; on 
                                Index of Proper Names 297

   being, lviii. 1 and passim; quoted, xliv. 4 and passim; Laws of, 
   discussed by Posidonius, xciv. 38; master of wisdom, cviii. 38
C. Asinius Pollio (patron of Vergil), style and rank of, c. 7 ff.
Polyaenus (correspondent of Epicurus), influence of Epicurus upon, 
   vi. 6, xviii. 9
Polyclitus (Greek sculptor, 5th century B.C.), works of, lxv. 5
Pompeii, probable home of Lucilius, xlix. 1; recalls memories of 
   Seneca’s boyhood, lxx. 1
Gn. Pompeius Magnus (the triumvir), his shyness, xi. 4; death, iv. 
   7; villas, li. 11; disagrees with Cato, xiv. 12 f.; three defeats of his 
   forces, lxxi. 8 ff.; ambitious campaigns of, xciv. 64 f.; relations 
   with Cato the Younger, xcv. 70; part in Clodian trial, xcvii. 8; civ. 
   29 ff.; cxviii. 2
Pomponius (possibly Pomponius Secundus, a contemporary of 
   Seneca, writer of tragedies and letters), iii. 6
Porsenna (Etruscan king), encounter with Mucius, xxiv. 5, lxvi. 51 
   ff.
Posidonius (Stoic philosopher, pupil of Panaetius and friend of 
   Cicero), dicta assigned to, xxxiii. 4; on length of life, lxxviii. 28; 
   opinion on drunkenness, lxxxiii. 10; definition of riches, lxxxvii. 
   31 ff.; on the arts and crafts, lxxxviii. 21; on the sage and the 
   inventor, xc. 5 ff.; on the weakness of the flesh, xcii. 10; on Plato’s 
   Laws, xciv. 38; on precepts, and other aids to virtue, xcv. 65 f.; civ. 
   22; cviii. 38; on independence of fortune, cxiii. 28; cxxi. 1
Prometheus, title of a work of Maecenas, xix. 9
Protagoras (Greek philosopher of Abdera. 5th century B.C.), 
   opinion on the flexibility of dialectic, lxxxviii. 43 f.
Publilius Syrus (writer of farces and mimes, 1st century B.C.), 
   greatness of, viii. 8 f.; quoted, xciv. 28; cviii. 8 ff.
Puteoli (a coast-town near Naples in Campania), voyage of Seneca 
   to, liii. 1; the idlers of, lxxvii. 1
Pyrrhonic school, scepticism of, lxxxviii. 44 f.
298  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

 Pyrrhus (king of Epirus, 3rd cent. B.C.), relations with Fabricius, 
    cxx. 6
 Pythagoras (Greek philosopher, 6th century B.C.), rules of, lii. 
    10; teacher of many famous lawgivers. xc. 6; on impressions of 
    divinity, xciv. 42; reasons for abstaining from animal food, 
    cviii. 17 ff.
 Pythocles, a friend of Idomeneus, xxi. 7 f.

R
 M. Atilius Regulus (hero of first Punic war), the sufferings of, lxvii. 
    7, 12; his pledge of honour, lxxi. 17; heroism of, xcviii. 12
 Rhodian (Telesphorus the), cowardly words of, lxx. 6
 Roman style, dignity and slowness of, xl. 11; Romans as species of 
    man, lviii. 12
 Rome, complicated life in, l. 3
 Romulus (first Roman king), death of, cviii. 31
 P. Rutilius Rufus (orator and statesman, banished 92 B.C.), exile of, 
    xxiv. 4, lxvii. 7; retirement of, lxxix. 14; heroism of, xcviii. 12

S
 Calvisius Sabinus (a typical parvenu), his illiteracy and bad taste, 
    xxvii. 5 ff.
 Sallust, compared, xx. 5; quoted, lx. 4
 C. Sallustius Crispus (historian, close of Republic), quoted, cix. 16; 
    aped by later historians because of archaic style, cxiv. 17 ff.
 Sarmatia (on the eastern side of Scythia), vanity of its rulers, lxxx. 10
 Satellius Quadratus, ridicules Sabinus, xxvii. 7 ff.
 Saturnalia, description of the, xviii. 1
 Sattia, anecdote about the longevity of, lxxvii. 20
 Gaius Mucius Scaevola (Roman legendary period), voluntary self-
    mutilation of, lxvi. 51 ff.
                                Index of Proper Names 299

Mamercus Aemilius Scaurus (prominent but unscrupulous 
   statesman in the reign of Tiberius), witticism of, xxix. 6
P. Cornelius Scipio (Africanus Major, conqueror of Hannibal), a 
   model for mankind, xxv. 6; his exile at Liternum, li. 11; adoration 
   by Seneca at his house and tomb, lxxxvi. 1 ff.; praised by Ennius, 
   cviii. 32 f.
P. Cornelius Scipio (Africanus Minor, conqueror of Carthage in 146 
   B.C.), lxvi. 13; friendship with Laelius, xcv. 72
P. Cornelius Scipio Nasica (admiral, defeated by Caesar’s fleet. 46 
   B.C.), heroism of, lxx. 22; defeat of, lxxi. 10
Q. Caecilius Metellus Pius Scipio (father-in-law of Pompey), 
   heroism of, xxiv. 9 ff.
Scribonia (see n.), witty saying of, lxx. 10
Scylla (dangerous rock on Italian side of Sicilian strait), lxxix. 1 f., 
   xcii. 9.
Scythia (from the Carpathians eastward), vanity of its rulers, lxxx. 
   10; clothing of its inhabitants, xc. 16
Scythians (tribe inhabiting steppes of S. Russia), flowing hair of, 
   cxxiv. 22
L. Annacus Seneca, (see Introduction, vol. i.), addresses himself, 
   lxviii. 10
Cornelius Senecio (friend of Seneca), untimely death of, ci. 1 ff.
Serapio (unknown), disordered utterances of, xl. 2
Annaeus Serenus (friend and possibly relative of Seneca; praefectus 
   vigilum at Rome), loss of, lxiii. 14 f.
Sertorius (1st cent. B.C.) conquered by Pompey in Spain, xciv. 64
Servius Tullius (Roman King), doubtful parentage of, cviii. 30
Cornelius Severus (contemp. of Ovid, author of a Bellum Siculum), 
   description of Aetna, lxxix. 5
Q. Sextius (the Elder), inspiring writings of, lxiv. 2 ff.; a simile of, lix. 
   7; his comparison of the sage with Jupiter, lxxiii. 12, 15; declines 
   honour at Caesar’s hand, xcviii. 13; vegetarianism of, cviii. 17 f.
300  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

 Sicily, dangers of Scylla and Charybdis, xiv. 8, xxxi. 9, xlv. 2; 
    Lucilius’ travels through, lxxix. 1; crops in, cxiv. 26
 Sisyphus, punished in Hades, xxiv. 18 ff.
 Socrates, inspiring personality of, vi. 6; effect of the mob upon, vii. 
    6; glory of, xiii. 14; his resignation, xxiv. 4; on globe-trotting, 
    xxviii. 2; facing the Thirty Tyrants, xxviii. 8; humble birth, 
    xliv. 3; worthy of reverence, lxiv. 10; drinks the poison, lxvii. 7; 
    resignation of, lxx. 9, lxxi. 17; emphasis upon character, lxxi. 
    7; on truth and virtue, lxxi. 16; late-won renown of, lxxix. 14; 
    resignation of, xcviii. 12; on restless travel, civ. 7; ib. 21; sufferings 
    of, civ. 27 f.
 Solon (see n. ad loc.), law-giver of Athens, and one of the seven wise 
    men, xc. 6
 Sotion (the Pythagorean, contempory of Seneca), recollections of, 
    xlix. 2; on vegetarianism, cviii. 17 ff.
 Speusippus (4th century B.C., predecessor of Xenocrates as head of 
    the Academy), qualifies the definition of the bonum, lxxxv. 18
 Stilbo (Megarian philosopher and a strong influence on the Cynic 
    and Stoic schools, fl. 4th century B.C.), attacked by Epicurus, ix. 1 
    ff.; teacher of Crates, x. 1; quoted, ix. 18
 Stoic, a certain, who gave good advice to Marcellinus, lxxvii. 6
 Stoics (school of philosophy), agreement with Stilbo, ix. 19; 
    boldness of their style, xiii. 4; their caution, xxii. 7; wise advice of 
    their leaders, xxii. 11; their lofty aims, xxix. 11; free ideas, xxxiii. 
    4; theory on the fate of the soul at death, lvii. 7; definitions of the 
    primary genus, lviii. 13 ff.; views on pleasure, lix. 1; on cause and 
    matter, lxv. 2 and passim; recommendation of the quiet life, lxviii. 
    1; reply to Peripatetics regarding virtue, lxxxv. 31; paradoxes of 
    the, lxxxvii. 1; on the value of precepts, xciv. 2 ff.; on the limits 
    to mourning, xcix. 27 f.; their many great masters, cviii. 38; 
    resemblance to the early Romans in their opinion of the gods, 
    cx. 1; their leaders on the “animality” of the virtues, cxiii. 1 ff.; on 
                                 Index of Proper Names 301

    the primal essence, cxiii. 23, on the emotions, cxvi. 1 ff. and 7; on 
    wisdom and corporeality, cxvii. 1 ff.; on bonum and honestum, 
    cxx. 1 ff.; overdone ideas of omniscience, cxxiii. 15 f.
 Sulla (dictator at Rome, 1st century B.C.), anger of, xi. 4; disobeyed 
    by Rutilius, xxiv. 4
 Syria, governed by Pacuvius, xii. 8; earthquakes in, xci. 9
 Syrtes (north coast of Africa), quicksands, xxxi. 9; cave-homes of 
    dwellers by the, xc. 17

T
 Tanusius Geminus (historian, 1st cent. B.C.), “heaviness” of, xciii. 
    11. For discussion of his identification with Volusius see edd. of 
    Catullus, 36
 Tarentum (city in Southern Italy), a place for retirement, lxviii. 5
 Tauromenium (now Taormina) in Sicily, lxxix. 1
 P. Terentius Afer (writer of comedies, 2nd cent. B.C.) quoted xcv. 53
 Themison (pupil of Asclepiades, 1st cent. B.C.), xcv. 9
 Theophrastus (successor of Aristotle as head of the Peripatetic 
    School), views on friendship, iii. 2
 Tiberius (Roman emperor, 14-31 A.D.), mentioned with other royal 
    connexions of Atticus, xxi. 4; his confidence in the drunken 
    Cossus, lxxxiii. 15; puts a fish up for auction, xcv. 42; opposition 
    to foreign cults, cviii. 22; epigram of, cxxii. 10
 Tibur (now Tivoli), earthenware from, cxix. 3
 Tigris, disappearance and reappearance of, civ. 15
 Timagenes (from Alexandria, historian, and one-time friend of 
    Augustus), grudge against Rome, xci. 13
 Timon, dinners like those of, xviii. 7
 Q. Aelius Tubero (2nd cent. B.C.), simple sacrifice of, xcv. 72 f.; 
    xcviii. 13; civ. 21; cxx. 19
 Twelve Tables, as source for orators’ vocabularies, cxiv. 13
302  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

U
 Ulysses, temptations of, xxxi. 2; victim of seasickness, liii. 4; 
    remedy against Siren Songs, lvi. 15; home-sickness of, lxvi. 26; 
    wanderings of, lxxxviii. 7 f.; self-restraint of, cxxiii. 12

V
 C. Valgius Rufus (Roman poet, b. 81 B.C.), describes Aetna, li. 1
 P. Terentius Varro (surnamed Atacinus, Latin poet, 82-37 B.C.), 
    quoted, lvi. 6
 Varus (an Early Empire parasite), epigram of, cxxii. 12 f.
 Servilius Vatia (rich man of leisure in the early Empire), country-
    house of, lv. 2 ff.
 P. Vatinius (see note ad loc.), xciv. 25; cxviii. 4; cxx. 19
 P. Vergilius Maro (Roman poet, 70-19 B.C.), immortalizes 
    Nisus and Euryalus, xxi. 5; the artist’s conception of, lviii. 20; 
    mentioned in illustration of obsolete words, lviii. 2 ff.; quoted, 
    xii. 9, xviii. 12, xxi. 5, xxviii. 1 and 3, xxxi. 11, xxxvii. 3, xli. 2, 
    xlviii. 11, xlix. 7, liii. 3, lvi. 12, lviii. 2 ff., lix. 17, lxiv. 4, lxvii. 8, 
    lxx. 2, lxxiii. 10 f., 15, lxxvii. 12, lxxviii. 15; description of Aetna, 
    lxxix. 5; quoted, lxxxii. 7, 16, 18, lxxxiv. 3, lxxxv. 4, lxxxvi. 15 f., 
    lxxxvii. 20, lxxxviii. 14, 16, lxxxix. 17, xc. 9, 11, 37; on Scylla, xcii. 
    9; quoted, xcii. 29, 34, xciv. 28; xcv. 33, 68 f.; xcviii. 5; ci. 4; ib. 13; 
    cii. 30; civ. 10; ib. 24; ib. 31 (comparing Cato with Achilles); cvii. 
    3; cviii. 24, 26, 29, 34 (indebtedness to Ennius); cxiv. 23; cxv. 4 f.; 
    cxxii. 2; cxxiv. 1
 M. Vinicius (see note ad loc.), cxxii. 12
 P. Vinicius, ridiculed by Asellius and Varius for his stammering, xl. 
    9 f.
 Virgo, the aqueduct, a colder plunge than the Tiber, lxxxiii. 5
                                 Index of Proper Names 303

X
 Xenocrates (4th century B.C., successor of Speusippus as head of 
    the Academy), qualifies the definition of the bonum, lxxxv. 18

Z
 Zaleucus (of Magna Graecia, 7th century B.C.), law-maker, xc. 6
 Zeno (founder of the Stoic school, fl. 300 B.C.), model for 
    Cleanthes, vi. 6; advice of, xxii. 11; dicta of, xxxiii. 4 ff.; object 
    of veneration, lxiv. 10; over-subtle syllogism of, lxxxii. 9, 19; 
    objections to drunkenness, lxxxiii. 9 ff.; on death, civ. 21; master 
    of wisdom cviii. 38
 Zeno, of Elea (Greek dialectic philosopher, 5th century B.C.), denial 
    of everything, lxxxviii. 44 f.

           SUBJECT INDEX

A
 Accidens (συμβεβηκός, “contingent upon”), cxvii. 3 ff.
 ἀδιάφορα (see media, “indifferent” things), lxxxii. 10 ff.
 adsensio, cxiii. 18 and note
 Analogy, with regard to knowledge of the good, cxx. 4 f. and note
 Animals, instinct (ὁρμέ) for self-preservation in, cxxi. passim
 ἀπάθεια, impatientia, ix. 1 ff., xiii. 4, lxxxv. 3 ff., cxvi. passim
 Arch, invention of the, xc. 32
 Archaisms, in style and wording, lviii. 1 ff., cxiv. 17 ff.
 Arts, four classes of, lxxxviii. 21 ff.; discovery of the, xc. 7 ff.; in 
    relation to doctrines and precepts, xcv. 7 ff.

B
 Baths, distractions of the, lvi. 1 ff.; luxury of, lxxxvi. 5 ff.
 Being, the only existing fact, according to Parmenides, lxxxviii. 44
 Benefits, lxxxi. passim
 Body, regard for the, xiv. 1 ff.; cxxi. 5 ff.; in relation to mind, cxvii. 
    13. etc.
 bona (“goods”), of various kinds, lxvi. 5 ff.; equality of, ib. 15 ff., 
    lxxi. 7 ff.; desirability of, lxvii. 3 ff.; falsely so called, lxxiv. 12 ff.; 
    varieties of, lxxxviii. 5
 bonum (the “good”), xxiii. 6 ff.; defined, xxxi. 6; regarded by 
    Academic School as variable, lxxi. 17 ff., lxxvi. 11 ff.; certain 
    syllogisms on, lxxxvii. passim; corporeality of the, cvi. 3 ff., cxvii. 
    2 ff.; is it a “living thing”? cxiii. 20 ff. (reduc. ad absurdum); 
    defined in several ways, cxviii. 8 ff.; relation to the honestum, 
    cxx. 1 ff.; derived from the senses or from the intellect, cxxiv. 1 ff.; 
    limited to reasoning man, cxxiv. 7 ff.
306  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

 Books, thoroughness in reading, ii. passim; xlv. 1-5; selective 
    reading of, lxxxiv. 1 ff.

C
 Calx, cviii. 32
 Categories, of Aristotle, lxv. 3 ff. and notes
 cause (contrasted with matter), as discussed by the Stoics, Aristotle, 
    and Plato, lxv. 2 ff.
 Circles, as indications of time, small and large, xii. 6 ff.
 compositio (arrangement of words), cxiv. 15 ff.
 Consolation, to the bereaved, lxiii., xcix.
 Contempt, as a source of safety, cv. 2 ff.
 Country-places, Seneca’s, xii. 1-4; Scipio’s, lxxxvi. passim; civ. 1 ff., 
    cx. 1, cxxiii. 1 ff.

D
 Death, scorn of, iv. 3 ff., xxii. 13 ff., xxiv. passim, xxvi. 4 ff.; 
    anticipation of xxx. 4 ff., xxxvi. 8 ff., lxi., lxxxii. 16 ff., xciii. 
    passim, suddenness of, ci. 1 ff.; resignation of, cii. 26 ff.
 decreta (dogmas), see Appendix A, Ep. xciv. 32, etc.; specially 
    defined, xcv. 44; necessity of, xcv. 61 f.
 Degeneracy of morals, xcvii. passim
 distantia, defined and contrasted with continua and componia, cii. 
    6 and note.
 distinctio (differentiation) of Chrysippus, ix. 14 f.
 Drunkeness, lxxxiii. passim

E
 Emotions, as expressed by the features, xi. passim; during peril, 
    lvii. 3 ff.; of bereaved women, lxiii. 13; only transitory in the 
    wise man’s case, lxxi. 29; defined as “passions,” lxxv. 11 f.; subject 
                                         Subject Index 307

    to reason, lxxxv. 2 ff.; corporeality of the, cvi. 5 ff.; should be 
    checked at the start, cxvi. 2 ff.
 essentia (οὐσία), discussed, lviii. 6 ff. and note
 exempla (patterns of conduct and philosophy), vi. 5 ff., xi. 8 ff., xxv. 
    5 ff., lii. 7 ff., xciv. 55 f., 72 ff., xcv. 69 ff., civ. 21 ff.
 Exercise, in moderation, xv. 1-6, lxxxiii. 3 ff.
 expetibile, as distinguished from expetendum, cxvii. 5
 Extracts (flosculi, summaries, maxims, chriai), xxxiii. passim, esp. 7 
    and note, xxxix. 1 f. and note; in proverbial form, xciv. 27 f.

F
 Fame, xliii. 3, lxxix. 13 ff.; misguided desire for, xciv. 64 ff.; as a 
    good, cii. 3 ff.
 Fate, xvi. 4; complaints against, xciii. 1 f.
 Figures of speech, abuse of, cxiv. 8 ff.
 Fortune (Chance), treachery of, viii. 3 f.; groundless fear of, xiii. 
    passim, xvi. 4, xviii. 6 f.; robs us of our friends, lxiii. 7 f.; gifts 
    of, lxxii. 7 ff.; game of, lxxiv. 6 ff.; her part in the Lyons fire, xci. 
    2 ff.; fickleness of, xcviii. passim; equipment against, cxiii. 27 f.; 
    inducements of, cxviii. 3 ff.
 Friendship, distinctions in, iii. passim; as applied to the wise man, 
    ix. passim, xix. 10 f., xxxv., xlviii. 2 ff., lv. 9 ff.; impartiality of, lxvi. 
    24 ff.

G
 Genus, in relation to species, lviii. 8 ff. and notes
 Gladiatorial combats, cruelty of, vii. 2 ff.; rigorous training for, 
    xxxvii. 1 f., lxxx. 1 ff.
 Glass, invention of, xc. 25
 God, xvi. 4; kinship with, xviii. 12 f., xxxi. 9 ff., xli., lxxxiii. 1; as 
    Master Builder of the Universe, lviii. 27 f., lxv. 19 ff.; obedience to, 
    in the face of obstacles, xcvi. 2; as Creator, cxiii. 16
308  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

 Gods, compared with sages, lxxiii. 12 ff.; sharing reason with men, 
    xcii. 27 ff.; belief in, xcv. 50; popular, cx. 1
 Golden Age, xc. 36 ff.; simplicity and health of the, xcv. 13 ff.
 Grammaticus, defined lxxxviii. 3 and note; as a critic of Vergil, cviii. 
    24 and note

H
 Happiness, dependent upon oneself, ix. 20 f.; defined, xcii. 3 ff.; 
    summing up all the benefits of philosophy, xciv. 8; in its relation 
    to precepts, xcv. 4 ff.
 Honestum, lxvi. 9 ff. and note, lxxi. 4, lxxiii. passim, lxxvi. 6 ff., 
    lxxxv. 17 ff.; relation to bonum, cxviii. 10 ff., cxx. 1 ff.

I
 Idea (of Plato), lxv. 7 and note
 idos (εἶδος), lviii. 20 f., lxv. 4 and note
 Ill-health, and death, liv. 1 ff.; bravery in the face of, xxx. 1 ff., lxvi. 1 
    ff.; relieved by philosophy, lxxviii. 1 ff.; of Lucilius, xcvi. 3; civ. 1 
    ff.; of the mind, lxviii. 8 f.
 imagine (similes), proper use of, lix. 6 f.
 incommoda (disadvantages), lxxii. 5

J
 Joy (gaudium), xxiii. 4 ff.; as contrasted with common pleasure, lix. 
    1 ff., 14 ff.

K
 καθήκοντα (duties), lxxxi. 9 ff.
 Knowledge (passim), discussed and defined, cxx. 3 ff.

 L
 Learning, excess in, xxvii. 5 ff.
                                         Subject Index 309

 Lectures, debasing effect of, lii. 8 ff.; on philosophy, lxxvi. 1 ff.; 
    perfunctory, cviii. 5 ff.
 Liberal studies, lxii. 1; defined, lxxxviii. 1 ff. and note
 Love, and other emotions, in relation to wisdom, cxvi. 5 ff.

M
 Magister populi, cviii. 31
 malum (evil), passim; defined, lxxxv. 28; discussed, ib. passim
 Mathematics (contrasted with philosophy), lxxxviii. 10 ff.
 Matter (contrasted with cause), lxv. 2 ff.
 Media (“indifferent” things, neither good nor bad), lxvi. 36 f., lxxxii. 
    10 ff., cix. 12 f.; “being wise” not an “indifferent” quality, cxvii. 9 f.
 Mime (farce), as reflector of slave-life, xlvii. 14
 Moral Philosophy, passim; Seneca’s projected book on, cvi. 2 and 
    note; cviii. 1, cix. 17
 Mourning, rules for, lxiii. 13 f.; limits to, xcix. passim

N
 Nature, as embodied in contented poverty, ii. 6 f., iv. 10 f.; as plain 
    living, xviii. 5 ff., xx. 7 ff., xxvii. 9, lxxxvii. 1 ff., etc.; life according 
    to, xvi. 7 f., xxv. 4 ff., xxx. 4, xli. 9, xciii. 2 ff., cvii. 7 ff., cxix. 2
    ff.; in Seneca’s own case, cviii. 13 ff., cxxiii. 2 ff.; as source of 
    reason, lxvi. 39 f., etc.; as explanation of rugged character in 
    mountainous countries, li. 10 f.

O
 οἰκονομική (with “civil,” a further division of philosophy), lxxxix. 10
 Old Age, xii. passim, xxvi. 1 ff.; Seneca’s feebleness, lxvii. 1; as an 
    “external” thing, xciii. 7
 ὀμολογία (conformity, consistency of virtue), lxxiv. 30 ff.
310  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

P
 Pain, as torture, xiv. 8 ff., xxiv. 3 ff.; with reference to virtue, lxvi. 18 
    ff.; endurance of, lxvii. 3 ff., lxxviii. 7 ff.; as endured by Maecenas, 
    ci. 10 ff.
 παρἀδοξα, lxxxi. 11 f. and note, lxxxvii. 1
 pauperum cellae, xviii. 7 and note, c. 6 and note
 phaecasium, cxiii. 1 and note
 φιληταί (street rowdies), li. 13 and note
 philologus, on Cicero’s De Re Publica, cviii. 30 f.
 Philosophy, and conformity, v. 1 ff.; as refuge, xiv. 11 ff., xvi. passim; 
    and riches, xvii. passim; benefits of, xxxvii. 3 ff.; as critic of 
    human worth, xliv. passim; inspiration of, liii. 8 ff.; demands of, 
    lxxii. 3 ff.; as a public service (active or in retirement), lxxiii. 1 
    ff.; impregnability of, lxxxii. 5 ff.; as imagined in Homer, lxxxviii. 
    5 ff.; divided into physics, logic, ethics, ib. 24 f; divided and 
    defined, lxxxix. 4 ff.; twofold Epicurean division, ib. 11; single 
    Cyrenaic, ib. 12; moral ib., 14 ff.; natural ib., 16; rational ib., 17 
    f.; in relation to human progress, xc. passim; as escape from 
    dangers, ciii. 4 f.; aid from, cviii. 4 ff.; as interpreting poetry, cviii. 
    25 ff.
 Pleasure, in plain living, xxi. 10 f.; instability of, xxvii. 2 f., xxxix. 6 
    f.; developing into vice, li. 4 ff.; two kinds of, lxxviii. 22 ff.; devices 
    of, xc. 19; in sadness, xcix. 25 ff.; to be avoided, civ. 34; devotion 
    to gluttony and late hours, cxxii. 2 ff.; followers of pleasure, limit 
    the good to the senses, cxxiv. 2 ff.
 Poetry, as an aid to good ideas, viii. 8 ff., cviii. 8 ff.
 Potter’s wheel, discovery of the, xc. 31
 Prayer, x. 5; of the wrong sort, lx., cxvii. 28 f.; of the right sort, lxvii. 
    7 ff.; as a curse upon an enemy, cx. 2 f.
 Precepts (advice, see Appendix A), xciv. and xcv. passim, cix. 14 ff.
 prima litteratura (πρωτη ἀγωγή, elementary schooling), lxxxviii. 20
                                         Subject Index  311

 principale (ἡγεμονικόν, “ruling power,” a part of the world-soul 
    which stimulates action in living beings), cxiii. 28, cxxi. 9 ff. and 
    notes
 Producta (commoda, “advantages”), lxxiv. 17 ff. and note
 προκοπή (progress), lxxi. 30, and note, lxxii. 6 ff., lxxv. 8 ff.; 
    proficiens, cix. 15
 pseudomenos, xlv. 10 and note

R
 Reapse, cviii. 32
 Reason (ratio), as curb of passions, xxxvii. 4; defined, lxxi. 12 ff. and 
    note; the source of perfection and the good, cxxiv. 23 f.
 Retirement, as contrasted with participation in affairs, viii. 1 ff., 
    x. 1 f., xiv. 3 ff., xix. passim, xxii. passim, xxxvi. passim, lvi. 1 ff; 
    mistaken idea of lv. 4 ff., xciv. 69 ff.; in Seneca’s own case, lvi. 9 ff., 
    lxxiii. passim

S
 Sage, dual make-up of the, lxxi. 27 and note
 sapere, as distinguished from sapientia, cxvii. 1 ff.
 Scientific observation, on Etna, li. 1; Etna and Sicily, lxxix. 1 ff.; xc. 
    10 ff.
 Self-sufficiency, ix. 13 ff., etc.
 Senses, inadequacy of the, lxvi. 35
 sepse, cviii. 32
 Sin, and reform, xxv. 1-3, cxii. passim; its removal through 
    knowledge, xxviii. 9 f., xxix. 4 ff., xlii. 1 ff., l. 4 ff.; one’s own, lxviii. 
    8 ff.; reasons for xciv. 13 f., 21; and conscience, xcvii. 12 ff.
 Slavery, xlvii. passim
 Soul, defined, cxiii. 14 and note; divinity of the, xli. 5 ff.; its 
    contemplative function lxv. 16 ff.; source and destination, 
    lxxxviii. 34; sustainer of life, xcii. 1 ff. and note; parts of the xcii. 
312  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 3

    8 ff. and note; unity of the, cxiii. 14 and note; ruler of the body, 
    cxiv. 23 ff.; indicator of character, cxiv. 1 ff.
 Soul after Death, various possibilities, lxxi. 16 and note; its release 
    lxv. 16 ff., lxxix. 12, xcii. 30 ff.; method of departure, lvii. 6 ff., 
    lxxvi. 33; eternity of the, cii. 21 ff., cxx. 17 ff.; transmigration, 
    cviii. 17 ff.; reunion of friends in another world, lxxviii. 28
 species, in relation to genus, lviii. 8 ff.
 Style, eccentric in case of Maecenas, xix. 9 f., cxiv. 4 ff.; rapid, xl. 2 
    ff.; national characteristics of, xl. 11 f.; of Lucilius, xlvi. 2, lix. 4 ff.; 
    simplicity and sincerity of, lxxxv. 3 ff.; of Fabianus, c. 1 ff.
 Suicide, xxiv. 25, xxx. 15, lviii. 32 ff., lxx. 4 ff. and note, lxxvii. 5 ff.
 supervacua, xlii. 6 ff., cx. 12 ff.
 Supreme Good, defined, lxvi. 6 ff.; according to Epicurus ib., 45 ff.; 
    lxxi. passim, lxxii. 5, lxxiv. 16, 26; another definition, lxxxv. 20; 
    source of, lxxxvii. 21; xcii. 5 ff.; independence of the, ix. 15, cix. 1 
    ff.
 Syllogisms, futility of, xiv. 8 ff.; as interrogationes, quaestiunculae, 
    “posers”, logical fallacies, xlviii. 4 ff., xlix. 8 f., lxxxii. 8 ff., 21 ff., 
    lxxxiii. 8 ff., lxxxv. passim; on the Good, riches, poverty, etc., 
    lxxxvii. passim; vanity of, cii. 20 ff.; cavillationes, sophismata, cxi. 
    passim, cxiii. 26, cxvii. 25 ff.

T
 Tabellariae (naves), packet-ships from Alexandria, lxxvii. 1 f.
 Theatre, hollowness of the profession, lxxx. 7 f.
 Time, saving of, i. passim, xxxii. 3 f., xlix. 2 ff.; discussed, lxxxviii. 33 
    f. and note
 translationes (metaphors), proper use of, lix. 6
 Transplanting, of olive-trees and vines, lxxxvi. 14 ff.
 Travel, and peace of mind, xxviii. 1-8; hardships of sea-voyaging, 
    liii. 1 ff.; by land, lvii. 1 ff.; vanity of, lxix. 1 ff., civ. 13 ff.
                                         Subject Index 313

V
 Virtue (passim), acquisition of, l. 7 ff.; power of, lxiv. 6 ff., lxvi. 2 ff.; 
    uniformity of, lxxi. 8 ff., lxxix. 10 ff.; identical with truth, lxxi. 16; 
    twofold aspect of, xciv. 45 f.; a vision of, cxv. 3 ff.; divided into its 
    parts, cxx. 11 f.
 Virtues (prudence, justice, bravery, temperance), discussed, lxvii. 3 
    ff., lxxxv. passim, lxxxviii. 29 ff.; prudence, bravery, justice, etc., 
    xcv. 55 ff.; whether they possess life, cxiii. passim
 Voice, training of the, xv. 7 ff.

W
 Wealth, as handicap to philosophy, xvii. passim; as a source of evil, 
    lxxxvii. 22 ff.; to be avoided, civ. 34; scorn of, cviii. 11; emptiness 
    of, cx. 14 ff.; the curse of, cxv. 9 ff.; the true variety, cxix. 5 ff.
 Wisdom (sapientia, σοφια), defined, xx. 5, lxxxviii. 32 f.; as an 
    art, xxix. 3; the heritage of, lxiv. 7 f.; defined by Socrates, lxxi. 
    7, lxxxiv. 12 f.; distinguished from philosophy, lxxxix. 4 ff.; her 
    accomplishments, xc. 26 ff.; mutual benefits of, cix. 1 ff.
