VOLUME  1

VOLUME 1
    The Tao of Seneca, Volume 1
   Based on the Moral Letters to Lucilius by Seneca, 
       translated by Richard Mott Gummere.

          Loeb Classical Library® edition 
          Volume 1 first published 1917; 
         Volume 2 first published in 1920; 
          Volume 3 first published 1925.

  Loeb Classical Library is a registered trademark of 
    The President and Fellows of Harvard College.

      Front Cover Design by FivestarBranding™ 
             (www.fivestarlogo.com)

Book Interior Design and Typography by Laurie Griffin 
          (www.lauriegriffindesign.com)

                Printed in U.S.A.
THESE VOLUMES ARE DEDICATED 
  TO ALL WHO SEEK TO BETTER 
 THEMSELVES AND, IN DOING SO, 
       BETTER THE WORLD.

             —Tim Ferriss 

     TABLE OF CONTENTS


HOW TO USE THIS BOOK                                     9
LETTER 1  On Saving Time                                17
LETTER 2  On Discursiveness in Reading                  19
LETTER 3  On True and False Friendship                  21
LETTER 4  On the Terrors of Death                       25
LETTER 5  On the Philosopher’s Mean                     29
LETTER 6  On Sharing Knowledge                          32
LETTER 7  On Crowds                                     35
LETTER 8  On the Philosopher’s Seclusion                39
LETTER 9  On Philosophy and Friendship                  43
LETTER 10  On Living to Oneself                        50
LETTER 11  On the Blush of Modesty                      52
THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS : Elif Batuman              55
LETTER 12  On Old Age                                   62
LETTER 13  On Groundless Fears                         66
LETTER 14  On the Reasons for Withdrawing From the World  72
LETTER 15  On Brawn and Brains                          78
LETTER 16  On Philosophy, the Guide of Life             83
LETTER 17  On Philosophy and Riches                     86
LETTER 18  On Festivals and Fasting                    90
LETTER 19  On Worldliness and Retirement                95
LETTER 20  On Practicing What You Preach               100
LETTER 21  On the Renown Which My Writings Will Bring You  105
LETTER 22  On the Futility of Half-Way Measures        109
LETTER 23  On the True Joy Which Comes from Philosophy  115
                           
LETTER 24  On Despising Death                          119
LETTER 25  On Reformation                              127
LETTER 26  On Old Age and Death                        130
LETTER 27  On the Good Which Abides                    134
LETTER 28  On Travel as a Cure for Discontent          137
LETTER 29  On the Critical Condition of Marcellinus    140
LETTER 30  On Conquering the Conqueror                 145
LETTER 31  On Siren Songs                              150
LETTER 32  On Progress                                 154
LETTER 33  On the Futility of Learning Maxims          156
LETTER 34  On a Promising Pupil                        160
LETTER 35  On the Friendship of Kindred Minds          162
LETTER 36  On the Value of Retirement                  164
LETTER 37  On Allegiance to Virtue                     168
LETTER 38  On Quiet Conversation                       170
THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS : Jocko Willink            172
LETTER 39  On Noble Aspirations                        175
LETTER 40  On the Proper Style for a Philosopher’s Discourse  178
LETTER 41  On the God Within Us                        183
LETTER 42  On Values                                   187
LETTER 43  On the Relativity of Fame                   190
LETTER 44  On Philosophy and Pedigrees                 192
LETTER 45  On Sophistical Argumentation                195
LETTER 46  On a New Book by Lucilius                  200
LETTER 47  On Master and Slave                         203
LETTER 48  On Quibbling as Unworthy of the Philosopher  210
LETTER 49  On the Shortness of Life                    215
LETTER 50  On Our Blindness and Its Cure               220
LETTER 51  On Baiae and Morals                         223
LETTER 52  On Choosing Our Teachers                    229
LETTER 53  On the Faults of the Spirit                 234
LETTER 54  On Asthma and Death                         239
LETTER 55  On Vatia’s Villa                            242
LETTER 56  On Quiet and Study                         246
LETTER 57  On the Trials of Travel                     251
LETTER 58  On Being                                    255
LETTER 59  On Pleasure and Joy                         267
LETTER 60  On Harmful Prayers                          274
LETTER 61  On Meeting Death Cheerfully                 276
LETTER 62  On Good Company                             278
LETTER 63  On Grief  for Lost Friends                 280
LETTER 64  On the Philosopher’s Task                   285
THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS : Donald Robertson         288
LETTER 65  On the First Cause                          301
Profiles of Modern-Day Stoics From Tools of Titans:
Jocko Willink, Derek Sivers, Sebastian Junger          311
28 Books On Stoicism                                   339

 HOW TO USE THIS BOOK
                   by Tim Ferriss 
                       A
Few of us consider ourselves philosophers. “Philosophy” usually 
conjures images of dense textbooks and academic quibbling with 
no application to real life. It’s fun for professors, perhaps, but a 
waste of time for the rest of us.
  I felt this way for decades. Then, in 2004, I found the work of 
Lucius Annaeus Seneca, better known as Seneca the Younger or 
simply “Seneca.” Born circa 4 BC in present day Spain and raised 
in Rome, Seneca was simultaneously an esteemed playwright, 
one of the wealthiest people in Rome, a famous statesman, and 
an advisor to the emperor. He had to negotiate, persuade, and 
strategize his way through life. Far from spouting philosophy 
from the safety of an ivory tower, he had to constantly deal with 
uncooperative, powerful human beings and faced disaster, exile, 
and death head on.
  Seneca took risks and did big things.
  His primary philosophy, Stoicism, was founded around 300 
BC in Athens and can be thought of as an operating system for 
thriving in high-stress environments. At its core, it teaches you 
how to separate what you can control from what you cannot, and 
it trains you to focus exclusively on the former.
  Seneca’s Moral Letters to Lucilius—a distillation of his lessons 
10  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

learned—changed my life and continues to do so today. You now 
hold a version of those letters in your hands, complete with origi-
nal illustrations, original calligraphy from compatible traditions 
like Zen, links to free audio, and more.
  I’m giving away The Tao of Seneca in the hopes that it changes 
your life, and I promise you that it can.
  Stoicism was designed for doers, and you’ll be in fine company 
as a student.
  Thomas Jefferson had Seneca on his bedside table. Michel de 
Montaigne had a quote from Epictetus—a handicapped slave 
turned famous Stoic teacher—carved into the ceiling of his house 
so he would see it constantly. Every year, Bill Clinton reads Medi-
tations by Marcus Aurelius, who was at once a Stoic, emperor, and 
the most powerful man in the world. Other proponents include 
John Stuart Mill, bestselling author Tom Wolfe, and Navy vice 
admiral and Medal of Honor recipient James Stockdale, who cred-
ited his survival as a prisoner of war (7.5 years, much of it in a 
windowless 3' x 9' cement cell) to Stoicism.
  But far from limited to overcoming the negative, Stoicism can 
also be used to maximize the positive.
  For this reason, Stoicism has spread like wildfire throughout 
Silicon Valley and the NFL in the last five years, becoming a mental 
toughness training system for CEOs, founders, coaches, and play-
ers alike. Super Bowl champions like the Patriots and Seahawks 
have embraced Stoicism to make them better competitors.
  In my own life, the results have been incredible.  
  Whether early-stage investments (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, Uber, 
Alibaba, and 50+ others), books translated into 40+ languages 
(e.g., Tools of Titans), or anything else in the last 20+ years of 
my life, I credit nearly all of the biggest successes—and biggest 
disasters averted—to my study of Stoicism and, specifically, the 
writing of Seneca.  
                     Foreword: How to Use This Book 11

  But keep in mind: reading alone does very little.  The ideas in 
this book are meant to be applied and this requires practice.
  Why do I fast for at least one three-day stretch each month?  
  Why do I often schedule “suffer camps” of various types, where I 
might endure cold or eat exclusively rice and beans for 3–10 days?
  Why might I wear the same type of black t-shirt for a week 
straight, along with one pair of jeans, all the while remaining 
unshaven and asking myself, “Is this the condition that I feared?”
  All of the above examples are how I use just one letter— 
Letter 18, On Festivals and Fasting (pg 90). Here’s the gist in a 
few excerpts:

     Set aside a certain number of days, during which you shall 
     be content with the scantiest and cheapest fare, with coarse 
     and rough dress, saying to yourself the while: “Is this the 
     condition that I feared?” It is precisely in times of immu-
     nity from care that the soul should toughen itself before-
     hand for occasions of greater stress, and it is while Fortune 
     is kind that it should fortify itself against her violence. In 
     days of peace the soldier performs maneuvers, throws up 
     earthworks with no enemy in sight, and wearies himself by 
     gratuitous toil, in order that he may be equal to unavoid-
     able toil. If you would not have a man flinch when the 
     crisis comes, train him before it comes. 
                           . . .
     Let the pallet be a real one, and the coarse cloak; let the 
     bread be hard and grimy. Endure all this for three or four 
     days at a time, sometimes for more, so that it may be a test 
     of yourself instead of a mere hobby. Then, I assure you, 
     my dear Lucilius, you will leap for joy when filled with a 
     pennyworth of food, and you will understand that a man’s 
12  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

     peace of mind does not depend upon Fortune; for, even 
     when angry she grants enough for our needs. 
                           . . .
     For though water, barley-meal, and crusts of barley-bread, 
     are not a cheerful diet, yet it is the highest kind of pleasure 
     to be able to derive pleasure from this sort of food, and 
     to have reduced one’s needs to that modicum which no 
     unfairness of Fortune can snatch away.

  These types of practices make you less emotionally reactive, 
more aware in the present tense, and more resilient. Perhaps 
counterintuitively, given the English connotations of “stoic,” this 
dramatically increases your ability to feel joy over the small things.
  As you navigate life, this type of mental toughness training 
also makes tough decisions easier, whether quitting a job, start-
ing a company, asking someone out, ending a relationship, or 
anything else.  
  So, where to start?
  There are many great minds in the Stoic pantheon, including 
Marcus Aurelius, Epictetus, and Cato. For me, though, Seneca 
stands out as easy to read, memorable, and surprisingly practical. 
He covers specifics ranging from handling slander and backstab-
bing, to fasting, exercise, wealth, and death. His letters read like 
a Choose-Your-Own-Adventure book for handling the obstacles 
life deals you.
  I suggest you approach this book is the way I approached it: 
make Seneca part of your daily routine. 
  Set aside 10–15 minutes a day and read one letter. Whether over 
coffee in the morning, right before bed, or somewhere in between, 
digest one letter. Do this for two weeks and it will change you.
  Feel free to bounce around and skip liberally.  This isyour  book, 
meant to be customized. Three of my favorites might help you 
                     Foreword: How to Use This Book 13

get started: Letter 13 On Groundless Fears (pg 66), Letter 18 
On Festivals and Fasting (pg 90), and Letter 20 On Practicing 
What You Preach (pg 100), which is also hilarious.
  If you have never been exposed to Seneca before, I’m excited 
for you . . . and envious of you. What a journey you have ahead.
  As he might say, “Vale.” Seneca used this to close many of 
letters, and it is often translated as “Farewell” for simplicity. It’s 
perhaps better translated several other ways, and my favorite is 
two words:
  Stay strong.
  May this book serve you as a friend, teacher, and companion 
on the path.
  I hope you enjoy the ride as much as I have,

  Tim
  San Francisco, California
  Twitter: @tferriss
  Instagram/Facebook: TimFerriss

I am deeply indebted to DailyStoic.com, who generously provided 
most of the contemporary interviews in this book. Additional 
modern essays are credited to their respective authors. My sincere 
thanks to all who were kind enough to contribute to this project.

             SUGGESTED 
         SHORT READING
                        A
If you ever feel overwhelmed by longer reads in this book, below 
are a few 5–10-minute options that punch above their weight.
  Each of these blog posts explores how to apply practical phi-
losophies in the real world, and the first is the most important 
to me personally: 

 Fear-Setting: The Most Valuable Exercise I Do Every Month 
                (tim.blog/fear-setting)

     Stoicism 101: A Practical Guide for Entrepreneurs 
                (tim.blog/stoicism101)

    On The Shortness of Life: An Introduction to Seneca 
                 (tim.blog/shortness)

   How to Use Philosophy as a Personal Operating System: 
               From Seneca to Musashi 
                (tim.blog/philosophy)

           Discovering Kindness In The Storm 
                 (tim.blog/kindness)

     Stoicism for Modern Stresses: 5 Lessons from Cato 
                 (tim.blog/less-stress)
             Japanese: Sei Kan Mu Ga
English: Taken together, seikan means watchful waiting. 
     Muga means selflessness or self-renunciation. 
  This suggests sitting quietly as is done in Zen practice.
     (Read vertically from top right to bottom left. 
          Each character is one word above.)

              Calligrapher: Noriko Lake
                    LETTER 1
                On Saving Time
                       A

Greetings from Seneca to his friend Lucilius.
  Continue to act thus, my dear Lucilius—set yourself free for 
your own sake; gather and save your time, which till lately has 
been forced from you, or filched away, or has merely slipped from 
your hands. Make yourself believe the truth of my words—that 
certain moments are torn from us, that some are gently removed, 
and that others glide beyond our reach. The most disgraceful kind 
of loss, however, is that due to carelessness. Furthermore, if you 
will pay close heed to the problem, you will find that the largest 
portion of our life passes while we are doing ill, a goodly share 
while we are doing nothing, and the whole while we are doing 
that which is not to the purpose.
  What man can you show me who places any value on his time, 
who reckons the worth of each day, who understands that he is 
dying daily? For we are mistaken when we look forward to death; 
the major portion of death has already passed. Whatever years be 
behind us are in death’s hands.
  Therefore, Lucilius, do as you write me that you are doing: 
hold every hour in your grasp. Lay hold of today’s task, and you 
will not need to depend so much upon tomorrow’s. While we are 
postponing, life speeds by.
18  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  Nothing, Lucilius, is ours, except time. We were entrusted by 
nature with the ownership of this single thing, so fleeting and 
slippery that anyone who will can oust us from possession. What 
fools these mortals be! They allow the cheapest and most use-
less things, which can easily be replaced, to be charged in the 
reckoning, after they have acquired them; but they never regard 
themselves as in debt when they have received some of that pre-
cious commodity—time! And yet time is the one loan which even 
a grateful recipient cannot repay.
  You may desire to know how I, who preach to you so freely, 
am practicing. I confess frankly: my expense account balances, 
as you would expect from one who is free-handed but careful. I 
cannot boast that I waste nothing, but I can at least tell you what 
I am wasting, and the cause and manner of the loss; I can give you 
the reasons why I am a poor man. My situation, however, is the 
same as that of many who are reduced to slender means through 
no fault of their own: every one forgives them, but no one comes 
to their rescue.
  What is the state of things, then? It is this: I do not regard a man 
as poor, if the little which remains is enough for him. I advise you, 
however, to keep what is really yours; and you cannot begin too 
early. For, as our ancestors believed, it is too late to spare when 
you reach the dregs of the cask.[1] Of that which remains at the 
bottom, the amount is slight, and the quality is vile. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Hesiod, Works and Days, 369.
                    LETTER 2
         On Discursiveness in Reading
                       A

Judging by what you write me, and by what I hear, I am forming 
a good opinion regarding your future. You do not run hither and 
thither and distract yourself by changing your abode; for such 
restlessness is the sign of a disordered spirit. The primary indica-
tion, to my thinking, of a well-ordered mind is a man’s ability to 
remain in one place and linger in his own company.
  Be careful, however, lest this reading of many authors and 
books of every sort may tend to make you discursive and unsteady. 
You must linger among a limited number of master thinkers, and 
digest their works, if you would derive ideas which shall win firm 
hold in your mind. Everywhere means nowhere. When a person 
spends all his time in foreign travel, he ends by having many 
acquaintances, but no friends. And the same thing must hold true 
of men who seek intimate acquaintance with no single author, but 
visit them all in a hasty and hurried manner.
  Food does no good and is not assimilated into the body if it 
leaves the stomach as soon as it is eaten; nothing hinders a cure so 
much as frequent change of medicine; no wound will heal when 
one salve is tried after another; a plant which is often moved can 
never grow strong. There is nothing so efficacious that it can be 
helpful while it is being shifted about. And in reading of many 
books is distraction.
20  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  Accordingly, since you cannot read all the books which you 
may possess, it is enough to possess only as many books as you 
can read.
  “But,” you reply, “I wish to dip first into one book and then 
into another.” I tell you that it is the sign of an overnice appetite 
to toy with many dishes; for when they are manifold and varied, 
they cloy but do not nourish. So you should always read standard 
authors; and when you crave a change, fall back upon those whom 
you read before. Each day acquire something that will fortify you 
against poverty, against death, indeed against other misfortunes 
as well; and after you have run over many thoughts, select one to 
be thoroughly digested that day.
  This is my own custom; from the many things which I have 
read, I claim some one part for myself.
  The thought for today is one which I discovered in Epicurus;[1] 
for I am wont to cross over even into the enemy’s camp—not as 
a deserter, but as a scout.
  He says: “Contented poverty is an honourable estate.” Indeed, 
if it be contented, it is not poverty at all. It is not the man who 
has too little, but the man who craves more, that is poor. What 
does it matter how much a man has laid up in his safe, or in his 
warehouse, how large are his flocks and how fat his dividends, if 
he covets his neighbour’s property, and reckons, not his past gains, 
but his hopes of gains to come? Do you ask what is the proper 
limit to wealth? It is, first, to have what is necessary, and, second, 
to have what is enough. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Frag. 475 Usener
                    LETTER 3
        On True and False Friendship
                       A

You have sent a letter to me through the hand of a “friend” of 
yours, as you call him. And in your very next sentence you warn 
me not to discuss with him all the matters that concern you, say-
ing that even you yourself are not accustomed to do this; in other 
words, you have in the same letter affirmed and denied that he 
is your friend.
  Now if you used this word of ours[1] in the popular sense, and 
called him “friend” in the same way in which we speak of all 
candidates for election as “honourable gentlemen,” and as we 
greet all men whom we meet casually, if their names slip us for 
the moment, with the salutation “my dear sir”—so be it. But if you 
consider any man a friend whom you do not trust as you trust 
yourself, you are mightily mistaken and you do not sufficiently 
understand what true friendship means. Indeed, I would have 
you discuss everything with a friend; but first of all discuss the 
man himself. When friendship is settled, you must trust; before 
friendship is formed, you must pass judgment. Those persons 
indeed put last first and confound their duties, who, violating the 
rules of Theophrastus,[2] judge a man after they have made him 
their friend, instead of making him their friend after they have 
judged him. Ponder for a long time whether you shall admit a 
given person to your friendship; but when you have decided to 
22  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

admit him, welcome him with all your heart and soul. Speak as 
boldly with him as with yourself.
  As to yourself, although you should live in such a way that you 
trust your own self with nothing which you could not entrust 
even to your enemy, yet, since certain matters occur which 
convention keeps secret, you should share with a friend at least 
all your worries and reflections. Regard him as loyal, and you will 
make him loyal. Some, for example, fearing to be deceived, have 
taught men to deceive; by their suspicions they have given their 
friend the right to do wrong. Why need I keep back any words 
in the presence of my friend? Why should I not regard myself as 
alone when in his company?
  There is a class of men who communicate, to anyone whom 
they meet, matters which should be revealed to friends alone, 
and unload upon the chance listener whatever irks them. Others, 
again, fear to confide in their closest intimates; and if it were 
possible, they would not trust even themselves, burying their 
secrets deep in their hearts. But we should do neither. It is equally 
faulty to trust everyone and to trust no one. Yet the former fault 
is, I should say, the more ingenuous, the latter the more safe.
  In like manner you should rebuke these two kinds of men—
both those who always lack repose, and those who are always 
in repose. For love of bustle is not industry—it is only the 
restlessness of a hunted mind. And true repose does not consist 
in condemning all motion as merely vexation; that kind of repose 
is slackness and inertia.
  Therefore, you should note the following saying, taken from 
my reading in Pomponius:[3] “Some men shrink into dark corners, 
to such a degree that they see darkly by day.” No, men should 
combine these tendencies, and he who reposes should act and he 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 23

who acts should take repose. Discuss the problem with Nature; 
she will tell you that she has created both day and night. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., a word which has a special significance to the Stoics; see Ep. xlviii, note.
2. Frag. 74 Wimmer.
3. See Index.

                    LETTER 4
            On the Terrors of Death
                       A

Keep on as you have begun, and make all possible haste, so that 
you may have longer enjoyment of an improved mind, one that is 
at peace with itself. Doubtless you will derive enjoyment during 
the time when you are improving your mind and setting it at 
peace with itself; but quite different is the pleasure which comes 
from contemplation when one’s mind is so cleansed from every 
stain that it shines.
  You remember, of course, what joy you felt when you laid 
aside the garments of boyhood and donned the man’s toga, and 
were escorted to the forum; nevertheless, you may look for a still 
greater joy when you have laid aside the mind of boyhood and 
when wisdom has enrolled you among men. For it is not boyhood 
that still stays with us, but something worse—boyishness. And 
this condition is all the more serious because we possess the 
authority of old age, together with the follies of boyhood, yea, 
even the follies of infancy. Boys fear trifles, children fear shadows, 
we fear both.
  All you need to do is to advance; you will thus understand 
that some things are less to be dreaded, precisely because they 
inspire us with great fear. No evil is great which is the last evil of 

Artwork opposite by Giulio Rossi
26  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

all. Death arrives; it would be a thing to dread, if it could remain 
with you. But death must either not come at all, or else must come 
and pass away.
  “It is difficult, however,” you say, “to bring the mind to a point 
where it can scorn life.” But do you not see what trifling reasons 
impel men to scorn life? One hangs himself before the door of his 
mistress; another hurls himself from the house-top that he may no 
longer be compelled to bear the taunts of a bad-tempered master; 
a third, to be saved from arrest after running away, drives a sword 
into his vitals. Do you not suppose that virtue will be as efficacious 
as excessive fear? No man can have a peaceful life who thinks too 
much about lengthening it, or believes that living through many 
consulships is a great blessing.
  Rehearse this thought every day, that you may be able to depart 
from life contentedly; for many men clutch and cling to life, even 
as those who are carried down a rushing stream clutch and cling 
to briars and sharp rocks.
  Most men ebb and flow in wretchedness between the fear of 
death and the hardships of life; they are unwilling to live, and yet 
they do not know how to die.
  For this reason, make life as a whole agreeable to yourself by 
banishing all worry about it. No good thing renders its possessor 
happy, unless his mind is reconciled to the possibility of loss; 
nothing, however, is lost with less discomfort than that which, 
when lost, cannot be missed. Therefore, encourage and toughen 
your spirit against the mishaps that afflict even the most powerful.
  For example, the fate of Pompey was settled by a boy and a 
eunuch, that of Crassus by a cruel and insolent Parthian. Gaius 
Caesar ordered Lepidus to bare his neck for the axe of the tribune 
Dexter; and he himself offered his own throat to Chaerea.[1] No 
man has ever been so far advanced by Fortune that she did not 
threaten him as greatly as she had previously indulged him. Do 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 27

not trust her seeming calm; in a moment the sea is moved to its 
depths. The very day the ships have made a brave show in the 
games, they are engulfed.
  Reflect that a highwayman or an enemy may cut your throat; 
and, though he is not your master, every slave wields the power 
of life and death over you. Therefore I declare to you: he is lord of 
your life that scorns his own. Think of those who have perished 
through plots in their own home, slain either openly or by guile; 
you will that just as many have been killed by angry slaves as by 
angry kings. What matter, therefore, how powerful he be whom 
you fear, when every one possesses the power which inspires your 
fear?
  “But,” you will say, “if you should chance to fall into the hands 
of the enemy, the conqueror will command that you be led 
away,”—yes, whither you are already being led.[2] Why do you 
voluntarily deceive yourself and require to be told now for the 
first time what fate it is that you have long been labouring under? 
Take my word for it: since the day you were born you are being 
led thither. We must ponder this thought, and thoughts of the 
like nature, if we desire to be calm as we await that last hour, the 
fear of which makes all previous hours uneasy.
  But I must end my letter. Let me share with you the saying 
which pleased me today. It, too, is culled from another man’s 
Garden:[3] “Poverty brought into conformity with the law of 
nature, is great wealth.” Do you know what limits that law of 
nature ordains for us? Merely to avert hunger, thirst, and cold. 
In order to banish hunger and thirst, it is not necessary for you 
to pay court at the doors of the purse-proud, or to submit to the 
stern frown, or to the kindness that humiliates; nor is it necessary 
for you to scour the seas, or go campaigning; nature’s needs are 
easily provided and ready to hand.
28  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  It is the superfluous things for which men sweat—the superflu-
ous things that wear our togas threadbare, that force us to grow 
old in camp, that dash us upon foreign shores. That which is 
enough is ready to our hands. He who has made a fair compact 
with poverty is rich. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. A reference to the murder of Caligula, on the Palatine, A.D. 41.
2. i.e., to death.
3. The Garden of Epicurus. Frag. 477 and 200 Usener.
                    LETTER 5
          On the Philosopher’s Mean
                       A

I commend you and rejoice in the fact that you are persistent in 
your studies, and that, putting all else aside, you make it each day 
your endeavour to become a better man. I do not merely exhort 
you to keep at it; I actually beg you to do so. I warn you, however, 
not to act after the fashion of those who desire to be conspicuous 
rather than to improve, by doing things which will rouse com-
ment as regards your dress or general way of living.
  Repellent attire, unkempt hair, slovenly beard, open scorn of 
silver dishes, a couch on the bare earth, and any other perverted 
forms of self-display, are to be avoided. The mere name of 
philosophy, however quietly pursued, is an object of sufficient 
scorn; and what would happen if we should begin to separate 
ourselves from the customs of our fellow-men? Inwardly, we 
ought to be different in all respects, but our exterior should 
conform to society.
  Do not wear too fine, nor yet too frowzy, a toga. One needs 
no silver plate, encrusted and embossed in solid gold; but we 
should not believe the lack of silver and gold to be proof of the 
simple life. Let us try to maintain a higher standard of life than 
that of the multitude, but not a contrary standard; otherwise, 
we shall frighten away and repel the very persons whom we are 
trying to improve. We also bring it about that they are unwilling 
30  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

to imitate us in anything, because they are afraid lest they might 
be compelled to imitate us in everything.
  The first thing which philosophy undertakes to give is fellow-
feeling with all men; in other words, sympathy and sociability. We 
part company with our promise if we are unlike other men. We 
must see to it that the means by which we wish to draw admiration 
be not absurd and odious. Our motto,[1] as you know, is “Live 
according to Nature”; but it is quite contrary to nature to torture 
the body, to hate unlaboured elegance, to be dirty on purpose, 
to eat food that is not only plain, but disgusting and forbidding.
  Just as it is a sign of luxury to seek out dainties, so it is madness 
to avoid that which is customary and can be purchased at no great 
price. Philosophy calls for plain living, but not for penance; and 
we may perfectly well be plain and neat at the same time. This 
is the mean of which I approve; our life should observe a happy 
medium between the ways of a sage and the ways of the world at 
large; all men should admire it, but they should understand it also.
  “Well then, shall we act like other men? Shall there be no 
distinction between ourselves and the world?” Yes, a very great 
one; let men find that we are unlike the common herd, if they 
look closely. If they visit us at home, they should admire us, 
rather than our household appointments. He is a great man who 
uses earthenware dishes as if they were silver; but he is equally 
great who uses silver as if it were earthenware. It is the sign of an 
unstable mind not to be able to endure riches.
  But I wish to share with you today’s profit also. I find in the 
writings of our[2] Hecato that the limiting of desires helps also to 
cure fears: “Cease to hope,” he says, “and you will cease to fear.” 
“But how,” you will reply, “can things so different go side by side?” 
In this way, my dear Lucilius: though they do seem at variance, yet 
they are really united. Just as the same chain fastens the prisoner 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 31

and the soldier who guards him, so hope and fear, dissimilar as 
they are, keep step together; fear follows hope.
  I am not surprised that they proceed in this way; each alike 
belongs to a mind that is in suspense, a mind that is fretted by 
looking forward to the future. But the chief cause of both these 
ills is that we do not adapt ourselves to the present, but send our 
thoughts a long way ahead. And so foresight, the noblest blessing 
of the human race, becomes perverted.
  Beasts avoid the dangers which they see, and when they have 
escaped them are free from care; but we men torment ourselves 
over that which is to come as well as over that which is past. Many 
of our blessings bring bane to us; for memory recalls the tortures 
of fear, while foresight anticipates them. The present alone can 
make no man wretched. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., of the Stoic school.
2. Frag. 25 Fowler.
                    LETTER 6
             On Sharing Knowledge
                        A

I feel, my dear Lucilius, that I am being not only reformed, but 
transformed. I do not yet, however, assure myself, or indulge the 
hope, that there are no elements left in me which need to be 
changed. Of course there are many that should be made more 
compact, or made thinner, or be brought into greater prominence. 
And indeed this very fact is proof that my spirit is altered into 
something better—that it can see its own faults, of which it was 
previously ignorant. In certain cases sick men are congratulated 
because they themselves have perceived that they are sick.
  I therefore wish to impart to you this sudden change in myself; 
I should then begin to place a surer trust in our friendship—the 
true friendship which hope and fear and self-interest cannot sever, 
the friendship in which and for the sake of which men meet death.
  I can show you many who have lacked, not a friend, but a 
friendship; this, however, cannot possibly happen when souls 
are drawn together by identical inclinations into an alliance of 
honourable desires. And why can it not happen? Because in such 
cases men know that they have all things in common, especially 
their troubles. You cannot conceive what distinct progress I notice 
that each day brings to me.
  And when you say: “Give me also a share in these gifts which 
you have found so helpful,” I reply that I am anxious to heap all 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 33

these privileges upon you, and that I am glad to learn in order that 
I may teach. Nothing will ever please me, no matter how excellent 
or beneficial, if I must retain the knowledge of it to myself. And if 
wisdom were given me under the express condition that it must 
be kept hidden and not uttered, I should refuse it. No good thing 
is pleasant to possess, without friends to share it.
  I shall therefore send to you the actual books; and in order that 
you may not waste time in searching here and there for profitable 
topics, I shall mark certain passages, so that you can turn at once 
to those which I approve and admire. Of course, however, the 
living voice and the intimacy of a common life will help you more 
than the written word. You must go to the scene of action, first, 
because men put more faith in their eyes than in their ears,[1] and 
second, because the way is long if one follows precepts, but short 
and helpful, if one follows patterns.
  Cleanthes could not have been the express image of Zeno, if 
he had merely heard his lectures; he shared in his life, saw into 
his hidden purposes, and watched him to see whether he lived 
according to his own rules. Plato, Aristotle, and the whole throng 
of sages who were destined to go each his different way, derived 
more benefit from the character than from the words of Socrates. 
It was not the class-room of Epicurus, but living together under 
the same roof, that made great men of Metrodorus, Hermarchus, 
and Polyaenus. Therefore I summon you, not merely that you may 
derive benefit, but that you may confer benefit; for we can assist 
each other greatly.
  Meanwhile, I owe you my little daily contribution; you shall be 
told what pleased me today in the writings of Hecato;[2] it is these 
words: “What progress, you ask, have I made? I have begun to be 
a friend to myself.” That was indeed a great benefit; such a person 
34    THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

can never be alone. You may be sure that such a man is a friend 
to all mankind. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Cf. Herodotus, i. 8 ὦτα τυγχάνει ἀνθρώποισι ἐόντα ἀπιστότερα ὀφθαλμῶν.
2. Frag. 26 Fowler.
                    LETTER 7
                   On Crowds
                       A

Do you ask me what you should regard as especially to be 
avoided? I say, crowds; for as yet you cannot trust yourself to 
them with safety. I shall admit my own weakness, at any rate; for 
I never bring back home the same character that I took abroad 
with me. Something of that which I have forced to be calm within 
me is disturbed; some of the foes that I have routed return again. 
Just as the sick man, who has been weak for a long time, is in such 
a condition that he cannot be taken out of the house without suf-
fering a relapse, so we ourselves are affected when our souls are 
recovering from a lingering disease.
  To consort with the crowd is harmful; there is no person who 
does not make some vice attractive to us, or stamp it upon us, or 
taint us unconsciously therewith. Certainly, the greater the mob 
with which we mingle, the greater the danger.
  But nothing is so damaging to good character as the habit of 
lounging at the games; for then it is that vice steals subtly upon 
one through the avenue of pleasure.
  What do you think I mean? I mean that I come home more 
greedy, more ambitious, more voluptuous, and even more cruel 
and inhuman, because I have been among human beings. By 
chance I attended a mid-day exhibition, expecting some fun, wit, 
and relaxation—an exhibition at which men’s eyes have respite 
36  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

from the slaughter of their fellow-men. But it was quite the 
reverse. The previous combats were the essence of compassion; 
but now all the trifling is put aside and it is pure murder.[1] The 
men have no defensive armour. They are exposed to blows at all 
points, and no one ever strikes in vain.
  Many persons prefer this programme to the usual pairs and 
to the bouts “by request.” Of course they do; there is no helmet 
or shield to deflect the weapon. What is the need of defensive 
armour, or of skill? All these mean delaying death. In the morning 
they throw men to the lions and the bears; at noon, they throw 
them to the spectators. The spectators demand that the slayer 
shall face the man who is to slay him in his turn; and they always 
reserve the latest conqueror for another butchering. The outcome 
of every fight is death, and the means are fire and sword. This sort 
of thing goes on while the arena is empty.
  You may retort: “But he was a highway robber; he killed a man!” 
And what of it? Granted that, as a murderer, he deserved this 
punishment, what crime have you committed, poor fellow, that 
you should deserve to sit and see this show? In the morning they 
cried “Kill him! Lash him! Burn him! Why does he meet the 
sword in so cowardly a way? Why does he strike so feebly? Why 
doesn’t he die game? Whip him to meet his wounds! Let them 
receive blow for blow, with chests bare and exposed to the stroke!” 
And when the games stop for the intermission, they announce: 
“A little throatcutting in the meantime, so that there may still be 
something going on!”
  Come now; do you[2] not understand even this truth, that a 
bad example reacts on the agent? Thank the immortal gods that 
you are teaching cruelty to a person who cannot learn to be cruel.
  The young character, which cannot hold fast to righteousness, 
must be rescued from the mob; it is too easy to side with the 
majority. Even Socrates, Cato, and Laelius might have been 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 37

shaken in their moral strength by a crowd that was unlike them; 
so true it is that none of us, no matter how much he cultivates 
his abilities, can withstand the shock of faults that approach, as 
it were, with so great a retinue.
  Much harm is done by a single case of indulgence or greed; 
the familiar friend, if he be luxurious, weakens and softens 
us imperceptibly; the neighbour, if he be rich, rouses our 
covetousness; the companion, if he be slanderous, rubs off some 
of his rust upon us, even though we be spotless and sincere. What 
then do you think the effect will be on character, when the world 
at large assaults it! You must either imitate or loathe the world.
  But both courses are to be avoided; you should not copy the 
bad simply because they are many, nor should you hate the many 
because they are unlike you. Withdraw into yourself, as far as you 
can. Associate with those who will make a better man of you. 
Welcome those whom you yourself can improve. The process is 
mutual; for men learn while they teach.
  There is no reason why pride in advertising your abilities 
should lure you into publicity, so that you should desire to recite 
or harangue before the general public. Of course I should be 
willing for you to do so if you had a stock-in-trade that suited such 
a mob; as it is, there is not a man of them who can understand 
you. One or two individuals will perhaps come in your way, but 
even these will have to be moulded and trained by you so that 
they will understand you. You may say: “For what purpose did I 
learn all these things?” But you need not fear that you have wasted 
your efforts; it was for yourself that you learned them.
  In order, however, that I may not today have learned exclusively 
for myself, I shall share with you three excellent sayings, of the 
same general purport, which have come to my attention. This 
letter will give you one of them as payment of my debt; the other 
two you may accept as a contribution in advance. Democritus[3] 
38  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

says: “One man means as much to me as a multitude, and a 
multitude only as much as one man.”
  The following also was nobly spoken by someone or other, 
for it is doubtful who the author was; they asked him what was 
the object of all this study applied to an art that would reach but 
very few. He replied: “I am content with few, content with one, 
content with none at all.” The third saying—and a noteworthy 
one, too—is by Epicurus,[4] written to one of the partners of his 
studies: “I write this not for the many, but for you; each of us is 
enough of an audience for the other.”
  Lay these words to heart, Lucilius, that you may scorn the 
pleasure which comes from the applause of the majority. Many 
men praise you; but have you any reason for being pleased with 
yourself, if you are a person whom the many can understand? 
Your good qualities should face inwards. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. During the luncheon interval condemned criminals were often driven into 
 the arena and compelled to fight, for the amusement of those spectators 
 who remained throughout the day.
2. The remark is addressed to the brutalized spectators.
3. Frag. 302a Diels².
4. Frag. 208 Usener.
                    LETTER 8
        On the Philosopher’s Seclusion
                       A

“Do you bid me,” you say, “shun the throng, and withdraw from 
men, and be content with my own conscience? Where are the 
counsels of your school, which order a man to die in the midst of 
active work?” As to the course[1] which I seem to you to be urging 
on you now and then, my object in shutting myself up and locking 
the door is to be able to help a greater number. I never spend a 
day in idleness; I appropriate even a part of the night for study. I 
do not allow time for sleep but yield to it when I must, and when 
my eyes are wearied with waking and ready to fall shut, I keep 
them at their task.
  I have withdrawn not only from men, but from affairs, 
especially from my own affairs; I am working for later generations, 
writing down some ideas that may be of assistance to them. There 
are certain wholesome counsels, which may be compared to 
prescriptions of useful drugs; these I am putting into writing; for 
I have found them helpful in ministering to my own sores, which, 
if not wholly cured, have at any rate ceased to spread.
  I point other men to the right path, which I have found late 
in life, when wearied with wandering. I cry out to them: “Avoid 
whatever pleases the throng: avoid the gifts of Chance! Halt before 
every good which Chance brings to you, in a spirit of doubt and 
fear; for it is the dumb animals and fish that are deceived by 
40  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

tempting hopes. Do you call these things the ‘gifts’ of Fortune? 
They are snares. And any man among you who wishes to live a 
life of safety will avoid, to the utmost of his power, these limed 
twigs of her favour, by which we mortals, most wretched in this 
respect also, are deceived; for we think that we hold them in our 
grasp, but they hold us in theirs.
  Such a career leads us into precipitous ways, and life on such 
heights ends in a fall. Moreover, we cannot even stand up against 
prosperity when she begins to drive us to leeward; nor can we 
go down, either, ‘with the ship at least on her course,’ or once for 
all;[2] Fortune does not capsize us—she plunges our bows under[3] 
and dashes us on the rocks.
  “Hold fast, then, to this sound and wholesome rule of life—that 
you indulge the body only so far as is needful for good health. 
The body should be treated more rigorously, that it may not be 
disobedient to the mind. Eat merely to relieve your hunger; drink 
merely to quench your thirst; dress merely to keep out the cold; 
house yourself merely as a protection against personal discomfort. 
It matters little whether the house be built of turf, or of variously 
coloured imported marble; understand that a man is sheltered 
just as well by a thatch as by a roof of gold. Despise everything 
that useless toil creates as an ornament and an object of beauty. 
And reflect that nothing except the soul is worthy of wonder; for 
to the soul, if it be great, naught is great.”[4]
  When I commune in such terms with myself and with future 
generations, do you not think that I am doing more good than 
when I appear as counsel in court, or stamp my seal upon a will, or 
lend my assistance in the senate, by word or action, to a candidate? 
Believe me, those who seem to be busied with nothing are busied 
with the greater tasks; they are dealing at the same time with 
things mortal and things immortal.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 41

  But I must stop, and pay my customary contribution, to balance 
this letter. The payment shall not be made from my own property; 
for I am still conning Epicurus.[5] I read today, in his works, the 
following sentence: “If you would enjoy real freedom, you must 
be the slave of Philosophy.” The man who submits and surrenders 
himself to her is not kept waiting; he is emancipated[6] on the spot. 
For the very service of Philosophy is freedom.
  It is likely that you will ask me why I quote so many of Epicurus’s 
noble words instead of words taken from our own school. But 
is there any reason why you should regard them as sayings of 
Epicurus and not common property? How many poets give forth 
ideas that have been uttered, or may be uttered, by philosophers! 
I need not touch upon the tragedians and our writers of national 
drama;[7] for these last are also somewhat serious, and stand half-
way between comedy and tragedy. What a quantity of sagacious 
verses lie buried in the mime! How many of Publilius’s lines 
are worthy of being spoken by buskin-clad actors, as well as by 
wearers of the slipper![8]
  I shall quote one verse of his, which concerns philosophy, and 
particularly that phase of it which we were discussing a moment 
ago, wherein he says that the gifts of Chance are not to be regarded 
as part of our possessions:

     Still alien is whatever you have gained
     By coveting.[9]

  I recall that you yourself expressed this idea much more happily 
and concisely:

     What Chance has made yours is not really yours.[10]

  And a third, spoken by you still more happily, shall not be omitted:

     The good that could be given, can be removed.[11]
42    THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

I shall not charge this up to the expense account, because I have 
given it to you from your own stock. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. As contrasted with the general Stoic doctrine of taking part in the 
   world’s work.
  2. See Ep. lxxxv. 33 for the famous saying of the Rhodian pilot.
  3. cernulat , equivalent to Greek ἀναχαιτίζω, of a horse which throws a rider 
   over its head.
  4. Cf. the Stoic precept nil admirandum.
  5. Frag. 199 Usener.
  6. Literally “spun around” by the master and dismissed to freedom. Cf. 
   Persius, v. 75f.
  7. Fabulae  togatae were plays which dealt with Roman subject matter, as 
   contrasted with adaptations from the Greek, called palliatae. The term, 
   in the widest sense includes both comedy and tragedy.
  8. i.e., comedians or mimes.
 9. Syri Sententiae, p. 309 Ribbeck².
10. Com. Rom. Frag. p. 394 Ribbeck².
11. ibidem.
                    LETTER 9
        On Philosophy and Friendship
                       A

You desire to know whether Epicurus is right when, in one of 
his letters,[1] he rebukes those who hold that the wise man is self-
sufficient and for that reason does not stand in need of friend-
ships. This is the objection raised by Epicurus against Stilbo and 
those who believe[2] that the Supreme Good is a soul which is 
insensible to feeling.
  We are bound to meet with a double meaning if we try to 
express the Greek term “lack of feeling” summarily, in a single 
word, rendering it by the Latin word impatientia. For it may be 
understood in the meaning the opposite to that which we wish 
it to have. What we mean to express is, a soul which rejects any 
sensation of evil; but people will interpret the idea as that of a soul 
which can endure no evil. Consider, therefore, whether it is not 
better to say “a soul that cannot be harmed,” or “a soul entirely 
beyond the realm of suffering.”
  There is this difference between ourselves and the other 
school:[3] our ideal wise man feels his troubles, but overcomes 
them; their wise man does not even feel them. But we and 
they alike hold this idea—that the wise man is self-sufficient. 
Nevertheless, he desires friends, neighbours, and associates, no 
matter how much he is sufficient unto himself.
44  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  And mark how self-sufficient he is; for on occasion he can be 
content with a part of himself. If he lose a hand through disease 
or war, or if some accident puts out one or both of his eyes, he 
will be satisfied with what is left, taking as much pleasure in his 
impaired and maimed body as he took when it was sound. But 
while he does not pine for these parts if they are missing, he 
prefers not to lose them.
  In this sense the wise man is self-sufficient, that he can do 
without friends, not that he desires to do without them. When 
I say “can,” I mean this: he endures the loss of a friend with 
equanimity.
  But he need never lack friends, for it lies in his own control 
how soon he shall make good a loss. Just as Phidias, if he lose a 
statue, can straightway carve another, even so our master in the 
art of making friendships can fill the place of a friend he has lost.
  If you ask how one can make oneself a friend quickly, I will tell 
you, provided we are agreed that I may pay my debt[4] at once and 
square the account, so far as this letter is concerned. Hecato,[5] 
says: “I can show you a philtre, compounded without drugs, herbs, 
or any witch’s incantation: ‘If you would be loved, love.’” Now 
there is great pleasure, not only in maintaining old and established 
friendships, but also in beginning and acquiring new ones.
  There is the same difference between winning a new friend 
and having already won him, as there is between the farmer who 
sows and the farmer who reaps. The philosopher Attalus used 
to say: “It is more pleasant to make than to keep a friend, as 
it is more pleasant to the artist to paint than to have finished 
painting.” When one is busy and absorbed in one’s work, the very 
absorption affords great delight; but when one has withdrawn 
one’s hand from the completed masterpiece, the pleasure is not 
so keen. Henceforth it is the fruits of his art that he enjoys; it was 
the art itself that he enjoyed while he was painting. In the case 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 45

of our children, their young manhood yields the more abundant 
fruits, but their infancy was sweeter.
  Let us now return to the question. The wise man, I say, self-
sufficient though he be, nevertheless desires friends if only for the 
purpose of practicing friendship, in order that his noble qualities 
may not lie dormant. Not, however, for the purpose mentioned by 
Epicurus[6] in the letter quoted above: “That there may be some-
one to sit by him when he is ill, to help him when he is in prison 
or in want;” but that he may have someone by whose sick-bed 
he himself may sit, someone a prisoner in hostile hands whom 
he himself may set free. He who regards himself only, and enters 
upon friendships for this reason, reckons wrongly. The end will 
be like the beginning: he has made friends with one who might 
assist him out of bondage; at the first rattle of the chain such a 
friend will desert him.
  These are the so-called “fair-weather” friendships; one who is 
chosen for the sake of utility will be satisfactory only so long as 
he is useful. Hence prosperous men are blockaded by troops of 
friends; but those who have failed stand amid vast loneliness their 
friends fleeing from the very crisis which is to test their worth. 
Hence, also, we notice those many shameful cases of persons who, 
through fear, desert or betray. The beginning and the end cannot 
but harmonize. He who begins to be your friend because it pays 
will also cease because it pays. A man will be attracted by some 
reward offered in exchange for his friendship, if he be attracted 
by aught in friendship other than friendship itself.
  For what purpose, then, do I make a man my friend? In order 
to have someone for whom I may die, whom I may follow into 
exile, against whose death I may stake my own life, and pay the 
pledge, too. The friendship which you portray is a bargain and not 
a friendship; it regards convenience only, and looks to the results.
46  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  Beyond question the feeling of a lover has in it something akin 
to friendship; one might call it friendship run mad. But, though 
this is true, does anyone love for the sake of gain, or promotion, 
or renown? Pure[7] love, careless of all other things, kindles the 
soul with desire for the beautiful object, not without the hope of 
a return of the affection. What then? Can a cause which is more 
honourable produce a passion that is base?
  You may retort: “We are now discussing the question whether 
friendship is to be cultivated for its own sake.” On the contrary, 
nothing more urgently requires demonstration; for if friendship is 
to be sought for its own sake, he may seek it who is self-sufficient. 
“How, then,” you ask, “does he seek it?” Precisely as he seeks an 
object of great beauty, not attracted to it by desire for gain, nor yet 
frightened by the instability of Fortune. One who seeks friendship 
for favourable occasions, strips it of all its nobility.
  “The wise man is self-sufficient.” This phrase, my dear Lucilius, 
is incorrectly explained by many; for they withdraw the wise man 
from the world, and force him to dwell within his own skin. But 
we must mark with care what this sentence signifies and how 
far it applies; the wise man is sufficient unto himself for a happy 
existence, but not for mere existence. For he needs many helps 
towards mere existence; but for a happy existence he needs only 
a sound and upright soul, one that despises Fortune.
  I should like also to state to you one of the distinctions of 
Chrysippus,[8] who declares that the wise man is in want of 
nothing, and yet needs many things.[9] “On the other hand,” he 
says, “nothing is needed by the fool, for he does not understand 
how to use anything, but he is in want of everything.” The wise 
man needs hands, eyes, and many things that are necessary for 
his daily use; but he is in want of nothing. For want implies a 
necessity, and nothing is necessary to the wise man.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 47

  Therefore, although he is self-sufficient, yet he has need of 
friends. He craves as many friends as possible, not, however, that 
he may live happily; for he will live happily even without friends. 
The Supreme Good calls for no practical aids from outside; it is 
developed at home, and arises entirely within itself. If the good 
seeks any portion of itself from without, it begins to be subject 
to the play of Fortune.
  People may say: “But what sort of existence will the wise man 
have, if he be left friendless when thrown into prison, or when 
stranded in some foreign nation, or when delayed on a long 
voyage, or when out upon a lonely shore?” His life will be like 
that of Jupiter, who, amid the dissolution of the world, when the 
gods are confounded together and Nature rests for a space from 
her work, can retire into himself and give himself over to his own 
thoughts.[10] In some such way as this the sage will act; he will 
retreat into himself, and live with himself.
  As long as he is allowed to order his affairs according to his 
judgment, he is self-sufficient—and marries a wife; he is self-
sufficient—and brings up children; he is self-sufficient—and 
yet could not live if he had to live without the society of man. 
Natural promptings, and not his own selfish needs, draw him 
into Friendships. For just as other things have for us an inherent 
attractiveness, so has friendship. As we hate solitude and crave 
society, as nature draws men to each other, so in this matter also 
there is an attraction which makes us desirous of friendship.
  Nevertheless, though the sage may love his friends dearly, often 
comparing them with himself, and putting them ahead of himself, 
yet all the good will be limited to his own being, and he will 
speak the words which were spoken by the very Stilbo[11] whom 
Epicurus criticizes in his letter. For Stilbo, after his country was 
captured and his children and his wife lost, as he emerged from 
the general desolation alone and yet happy, spoke as follows to 
48  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

Demetrius, called Sacker of Cities because of the destruction he 
brought upon them, in answer to the question whether he had 
lost anything: “I have all my goods with me!”
  There is a brave and stout-hearted man for you! The enemy 
conquered, but Stilbo conquered his conqueror. “I have lost 
nothing!” Aye, he forced Demetrius to wonder whether he himself 
had conquered after all. “My goods are all with me!” In other 
words, he deemed nothing that might be taken from him to be 
a good.
  We marvel at certain animals because they can pass through 
fire and suffer no bodily harm; but how much more marvellous 
is a man who has marched forth unhurt and unscathed through 
fire and sword and devastation! Do you understand now how 
much easier it is to conquer a whole tribe than to conquer one 
man? This saying of Stilbo makes common ground with Stoicism; 
the Stoic also can carry his goods unimpaired through cities that 
have been burned to ashes; for he is self-sufficient. Such are the 
bounds which he sets to his own happiness.
  But you must not think that our school alone can utter noble 
words; Epicurus himself, the reviler of Stilbo, spoke similar 
language;[12] put it down to my credit, though I have already wiped 
out my debt for the present day.[13] He says: “Whoever does not 
regard what he has as most ample wealth, is unhappy, though he 
be master of the whole world.” Or, if the following seems to you 
a more suitable phrase—for we must try to render the meaning 
and not the mere words: “A man may rule the world and still be 
unhappy, if he does not feel that he is supremely happy.”
  In order, however, that you may know that these sentiments 
are universal,[14] suggested, of course, by Nature, you will find in 
one of the comic poets this verse;

     Unblest is he who thinks himself unblest.[15]
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     49

or what does your condition matter, if it is bad in your own eyes?
   You may say; “What then? If yonder man, rich by base means, 
and yonder man, lord of many but slave of more, shall call 
themselves happy, will their own opinion make them happy?” It 
matters not what one says, but what one feels; also, not how one 
feels on one particular day, but how one feels at all times. There is 
no reason, however, why you should fear that this great privilege 
will fall into unworthy hands; only the wise man is pleased with 
his own. Folly is ever troubled with weariness of itself. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Frag. 174 Usener.
  2. i.e., the Cynics.
  3. i.e., the Cynics.
  4. i.e., the diurna mercedula; see Ep. vi, 7.
  5. Frag. 27 Fowler.
  6. Frag. 175 Usener.
  7. “Pure love,” i.e., love in its essence, unalloyed with other emotions.
  8. Cf. his Frag. moral. 674 von Arnim.
  9. The distinction is based upon the meaning ofegere , “to be in want of” 
   something indispensible, and opus esse, “to have need of” something 
   which one can do without.
10. This refers to the Stoic conflagration: after certain cycles their world was 
   destroyed by fire. Cf. E. V. Arnold, Roman Stoicism, pp. 192 f.; cf. also 
   Chrysippus, Frag. phys. 1065 von Arnim.
11. Gnomologici Vaticani 515a Sternberg.
12. Frag. 474 Usener.
13. Cf. above § 6.
14. i.e., not confined to the Stoics, etc.
15. Author unknown; perhaps, as Buecheler thinks, adapted from the Greek.
                    LETTER 10
              On Living to Oneself
                        A

Yes, I do not change my opinion: avoid the many, avoid the few, 
avoid even the individual. I know of no one with whom I should 
be willing to have you shared. And see what an opinion of you I 
have; for I dare to trust you with your own self. Crates, they say, 
the disciple of the very Stilbo whom I mentioned in a former let-
ter, noticed a young man walking by himself, and asked him what 
he was doing all alone. “I am communing with myself,” replied the 
youth. “Pray be careful, then,” said Crates, “and take good heed; 
you are communing with a bad man!”
  When persons are in mourning, or fearful about something, we 
are accustomed to watch them that we may prevent them from 
making a wrong use of their loneliness. No thoughtless person 
ought to be left alone; in such cases he only plans folly, and heaps 
up future dangers for himself or for others; he brings into play his 
base desires; the mind displays what fear or shame used to repress; 
it whets his boldness, stirs his passions, and goads his anger. And 
finally, the only benefit that solitude confers—the habit of trusting 
no man, and of fearing no witnesses—is lost to the fool; for he 
betrays himself.
  Mark therefore what my hopes are for you—nay, rather, what I 
am promising myself, inasmuch as hope is merely the title of an 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 51

uncertain blessing: I do not know any person with whom I should 
prefer you to associate rather than yourself.
  I remember in what a great-souled way you hurled forth 
certain phrases, and how full of strength they were! I immediately 
congratulated myself and said: “These words did not come from 
the edge of the lips; these utterances have a solid foundation. This 
man is not one of the many; he has regard for his real welfare.”
  Speak, and live, in this way; see to it that nothing keeps you 
down. As for your former prayers, you may dispense the gods 
from answering them; offer new prayers; pray for a sound mind 
and for good health, first of soul and then of body. And of course 
you should offer those prayers frequently. Call boldly upon God; 
you will not be asking him for that which belongs to another.
  But I must, as is my custom, send a little gift along with this 
letter. It is a true saying which I have found in Athenodorus:[1] 
“Know that thou art freed from all desires when thou hast reached 
such a point that thou prayest to God for nothing except what 
thou canst pray for openly.” But how foolish men are now! They 
whisper the basest of prayers to heaven; but if anyone listens, 
they are silent at once. That which they are unwilling for men to 
know, they communicate to God. Do you not think, then, that 
some such wholesome advice as this could be given you: “Live 
among men as if God beheld you; speak with God as if men were 
listening”? Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Frag. de superstitione 36 H., according to Rossbach.
                    LETTER 11
            On the Blush of Modesty
                        A

Your friend and I have had a conversation. He is a man of abil-
ity; his very first words showed what spirit and understanding he 
possesses, and what progress he has already made. He gave me a 
foretaste, and he will not fail to answer thereto. For he spoke not 
from forethought, but was suddenly caught off his guard. When 
he tried to collect himself, he could scarcely banish that hue of 
modesty, which is a good sign in a young man; the blush that 
spread over his face seemed so to rise from the depths. And I 
feel sure that his habit of blushing will stay with him after he has 
strengthened his character, stripped off all his faults, and become 
wise. For by no wisdom can natural weaknesses of the body be 
removed. That which is implanted and inborn can be toned down 
by training, but not overcome.
  The steadiest speaker, when before the public, often breaks 
into a perspiration, as if he had wearied or over-heated himself; 
some tremble in the knees when they rise to speak; I know of 
some whose teeth chatter, whose tongues falter, whose lips quiver. 
Training and experience can never shake off this habit; nature 
exerts her own power and through such a weakness makes her 
presence known even to the strongest.
  I know that the blush, too, is a habit of this sort, spreading 
suddenly over the faces of the most dignified men. It is, indeed 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 53

more prevalent in youth, because of the warmer blood and the 
sensitive countenance; nevertheless, both seasoned men and 
aged men are affected by it. Some are most dangerous when they 
redden, as if they were letting all their sense of shame escape.
  Sulla, when the blood mantled his cheeks, was in his fiercest 
mood. Pompey had the most sensitive cast of countenance; he 
always blushed in the presence of a gathering, and especially at a 
public assembly. Fabianus also, I remember, reddened when he 
appeared as a witness before the senate; and his embarrassment 
became him to a remarkable degree.
  Such a habit is not due to mental weakness, but to the novelty of 
a situation; an inexperienced person is not necessarily confused, 
but is usually affected, because he slips into this habit by natural 
tendency of the body. Just as certain men are full-blooded, so 
others are of a quick and mobile blood, that rushes to the face 
at once.
  As I remarked, Wisdom can never remove this habit; for if she 
could rub out all our faults, she would be mistress of the universe. 
Whatever is assigned to us by the terms of our birth and the blend 
in our constitutions, will stick with us, no matter how hard or 
how long the soul may have tried to master itself. And we cannot 
forbid these feelings any more than we can summon them.
  Actors in the theatre, who imitate the emotions, who portray 
fear and nervousness, who depict sorrow, imitate bashfulness by 
hanging their heads, lowering their voices, and keeping their eyes 
fixed and rooted upon the ground. They cannot, however, muster 
a blush; for the blush cannot be prevented or acquired. Wisdom 
will not assure us of a remedy, or give us help against it; it comes 
or goes unbidden, and is a law unto itself.
  But my letter calls for its closing sentence. Hear and take to 
heart this useful and wholesome motto:[1] “Cherish some man 
of high character, and keep him ever before your eyes, living as 
54  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

if he were watching you, and ordering all your actions as if he 
beheld them.”
  Such, my dear Lucilius, is the counsel of Epicurus;[2] he has 
quite properly given us a guardian and an attendant. We can get 
rid of most sins, if we have a witness who stands near us when we 
are likely to go wrong. The soul should have someone whom it 
can respect—one by whose authority it may make even its inner 
shrine more hallowed.[3] Happy is the man who can make others 
better, not merely when he is in their company, but even when he 
is in their thoughts! And happy also is he who can so revere a man 
as to calm and regulate himself by calling him to mind! One who 
can so revere another, will soon be himself worthy of reverence.
  Choose therefore a Cato; or, if Cato seems too severe a model, 
choose some Laelius, a gentler spirit. Choose a master whose life, 
conversation, and soul-expressing face have satisfied you; picture 
him always to yourself as your protector or your pattern. For we 
must indeed have someone according to whom we may regulate 
our characters; you can never straighten that which is crooked 
unless you use a ruler. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Epicurus, Frag. 210 Usener.
2. Frag. 210 Usener.
3. The figure is taken from the ἄδυτον, the Holy of Holies in a temple. Cf. 
 Vergil, Aeneid, vi. 10 secreta Sibyllas.
 THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS


               How To Be A Stoic: 
   An Interview With Author Elif Batuman

There’s been quite a surge of stories on Stoicism lately—appear-
ing everywhere from influential blogs to prestigious outlets 
like Sports Illustrated, New York Times, The Guardian and The 
Atlantic. One of the pieces that caught our attention was “How 
to Be a Stoic” in The New Yorker. It’s by Elif Batuman (Twitter: 
@BananaKarenina), a staff writer at The New Yorker and author 
of the acclaimed The Idiot and The Possessed: Adventures with 
Russian Books and the People Who Read Them. Her stories have 
appeared in Best American Travel Writing and Best American 
Essays anthologies.
  Her piece is a wonderful exploration of Epictetus and so the 
Daily Stoic team reached out to learn more about Elif and her 
relation to Stoicism. How does she use it on a day-to-day basis? 
What are the common misconceptions about the philosophy? 
How did she first discover it? What are some characters in litera-
ture that embody Stoicism? Was there anything off-putting about 
a philosophy that appears to have a ‘male-bent’?
  We are grateful to Elif for agreeing to do this interview and her 
generous answers which you can read below. Enjoy!

History tends to show that Stoicism is often popular during 
times of difficulty or uncertainty. Was that true in your case? I 
was curious if you could give our readers a bit of a background 
56  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

regarding your story of discovering Epictetus and how it has 
helped you?
  Yes, I had just started a new job in a new country (Turkey), 
where there was a certain amount of political tension. I was also 
in the middle of a problematic long-distance relationship, and 
living in a remote area. I had gotten really behind on work in the 
previous months (my first book,The  Possessed, had just come out, 
so I was doing travel and publicity for that, and then also I had had 
some personal issues), and had deliberately sought out this kind 
of isolated living situation so I could catch up, but then I ended 
up feeling really lost and alone. I was also doing some reporting, 
I was working on a story for the New Yorker about soccer fan 
groups in Istanbul, which involved hanging out with a milieu I 
wasn’t really used to, often late at night—it was a stressful time.

You mentioned that you first discovered Epictetus back in 2011 
and you wrote about him more than five years later. Did you 
read any of the other Stoics in between? I can only assume he 
made a strong impression on you and was wondering how often 
did his ideas come to mind over the years in your daily life? 
Was it something that was a constant presence or it was more 
in specific situations?
  That piece I wrote was just about Epictetus, and I only had 750 
words, so it’s a bit schematic. My actual route to the Stoics was 
more circuitous. I’m sure I had been introduced to Stoic ideas in 
the past, but the first time they really registered with me was in 
Istanbul in 2010 or 2011 when I read Sarah Bakewell’s wonderful 
How to Live: Or A Life of Montaigne in One Question and Twenty 
Attempts at an Answer. It’s kind of a self-help book in the form of 
biographical essays about Montaigne. For me, all the most helpful 
advice came from the Stoics. (Montaigne as you probably know 
was really influenced by Stoicism, especially Seneca, though also 
            THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | ELIF BATUMAN 57

Epictetus, and also the Epicureans.) I wanted to know more about 
the Stoics, so I bought A Guide to the Good Life: The Art of Stoic 
Joy, by William B. Irvine, which was a terrific introduction to the 
basic ideas and how they could be applied to daily life. After that 
I read Seneca’s Dialogues and Essays, Marcus Aurelius’s Medita-
tions, and Epictetus’s Enchiridion.
  I liked Marcus Aurelius and Seneca, too, but Epictetus was 
definitely my favorite—I think he’s the funniest. With Marcus 
Aurelius you have this world-weary emperor who is kind of a 
mystic; Seneca writes in this flowery Latin, he’s a famous tragedian 
and a speechwriter for Nero, so he has that whole thing going; 
but Epictetus is born a slave, and then he becomes a teacher, and 
all he cares about is teaching. I was teaching undergraduates at 
the time, and I felt like Epictetus had been working on this same 
eternal puzzle that I was, of how to get young people to do what’s 
difficult, to make them think that things are worthwhile, to rally 
their spirits, and it felt like finding this great friend and ally.
  After I read theEnchiridion , I got the Discourses and Selected 
Writings, the Penguin Classics one edited by Robert Dobbin, 
which was marvelous, even better than the Enchiridion I had 
downloaded for free online somewhere. Next I tried reading 
Musonius Rufus, Epictetus’s teacher—he was great, too, but I 
thought the ideas were more forcefully expressed in Epictetus. 
Then I read Tad Brennan’sThe  Stoic Life, where he summarizes a 
lot of Chrysippus’s ideas, but you know, Chrysippus really isn’t for 
me, the whole thing about how everyone who isn’t 100% wise is 
100% “vicious” seems kind of theoretical and alienating to me. I 
prefer what I take to be Epictetus’s view, viz. that we’re all strug-
gling constantly, none of us will be perfect, but we can always get 
better, and that improvement is not just not worthless, it’s actually 
the most meaningful thing there is.
58  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

At least online (and of course, historically) Stoicism seems 
to have a predominant number of males. Many of them hear 
about it from action movies like Gladiator or the military or 
now, with its popularity in sports, it might get passed to them 
in the locker room. I’m curious about two things. One, as a 
woman, was there anything off putting about that male-bent? 
Two, since the actual philosophy itself is universal and can 
help anyone, what can be done to recreate your experience and 
exposure to philosophy?
  Well, I never saw Gladiator and have never served in the mili-
tary or spent much time in a men’s locker room, so I can’t really 
speak to the “male bent” that Stoicism might have in those venues. 
As a reader in the privacy of my home, I didn’t find there was 
anything off-puttingly male about Stoic philosophy. I guess Epi-
ctetus talks about beards in a way I can’t really identify with, but 
I don’t think that’s a major cornerstone of his belief. And Muso-
nius Rufus wrote in a really moving way about how he thought 
women and men should have the same education in philosophy, 
that women are just as capable as men of applying and benefiting 
from philosophical ideas. And Seneca does write those letters to 
women, including his mother, so clearly he thinks Stoicism can 
help women.
  I think there’s a common misconception about Stoicism, that 
it’s about forcing yourself to somehow not feel emotions; that’s 
probably an idea that would appeal more to men than to women 
(since, from childhood, boys are encouraged to be macho, while 
girls are encouraged to be in touch with their emotions). But the 
thing I love about Epictetus is that it’s really all about handling 
emotions. He’s like, “You’re definitely going to feel this incredibly 
powerful thing, but guess what, it’s not a law that dictates what 
you think or how you act—you’re perfectly free, and in fact duty-
bound, to consult your reason and say, ‘OK, feeling, duly noted, 
            THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | ELIF BATUMAN 59

but you are just a feeling and not the truth.’” I think that’s maybe 
an especially useful message for women, because of how little 
girls are educated, or at least how they were when I was little. I 
think for a lot of women (as well as men), there’s a tendency to 
think: “Oh my God, I already felt this, so the bad thing already 
happened.” And Epictetus is all about realizing, “Bro, nothing bad 
has happened yet, everyone has feelings, now just take a moment 
and evaluate what the truth is.”

In your New Yorker piece, you mention Epictetus’s line about 
ignoring small slights—“For such a small price, I buy tranquil-
ity,” and how useful it has been. Are there other exercises or 
quotes that you’d point to as practical and helpful?
  Oh man, I use so many of them every day. Definitely, the one 
about the bathhouse: “If you are heading out to bathe, picture to 
yourself the typical scene at the bathhouse—people splashing, 
pushing, yelling and pinching your clothes. You will complete the 
act with more composure if you say at the outset, ‘I want a bath, 
but at the same time I want to keep my will aligned with nature.’” 
I actually thought that at a hamam in Istanbul once and it really 
helped! I use it all the time on the subway and also at the airport.
  Another great trick is when he’s like, “You know how if some-
one else tells you that something bad happened to them, you’re 
like, ‘Oh, too bad, that’s life,’ but if something bad happens to 
you, you’re like, ‘I am the unhappiest of mortals?’” Oh I found 
the quote: “When somebody’s wife or child dies, to a man we all 
routinely say, ‘Well, that’s part of life.’ But if one of our own family 
is involved, then right away it’s ‘Poor, poor me!’ We would do bet-
ter to remember how we react when a similar loss afflicts others.”
  I haven’t had to use that one with a big loss, but for little things 
it really works. Last week I was having bureaucratic trouble with 
my health insurance. I imagined I was listening to a friend tell 
60  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

me about making such calls, and thought about how I would be 
like, “Oh, too bad, insurance can be a pain”—I definitely wouldn’t 
have been like, “Oh my God, you unfortunate person, your whole 
week must have been ruined, what did you do wrong that this 
happened to you, how could you have avoided it?”—which is kind 
of how I felt about it myself, when I didn’t stop to think about it.

You are both a fantastic writer and a scholar—writing for the 
New Yorker, n+1, Harper’s Magazine among others and you 
hold a doctoral degree from Stanford in comparative litera-
ture. I’d love to know if there are any fictional characters that 
you think embody Stoicism that you can point us to? Or any 
other works of fiction that you think readers would love? (Also 
I want to ask if you’ve read Memoirs of Hadrian by Marguerite 
Yourcenar?)
  I actually find Stoicism to be very present in the works of Char-
lotte Bronte’s novels Jane Eyre and Villette. (She calls it “stoicism” 
or “Christian stoicism” or “Christian composure.”) Both those 
novels are about a young woman who really has no social value 
in the Victorian social marketplace—poor, orphaned, no social 
connections, not beautiful—Bronte is really cold and brutal about 
this. Those girls don’t have a single thing you need to make a good 
marriage, which at that time is the only thing standing between 
an unconnected young woman and a whole humiliating, possibly 
long, life as a drudge and a dependent. There are these amazing 
passages in both books, towards the end, where the character 
realizes (or thinks she realizes) that love isn’t going to work out 
for her, that the guy who she thought liked her is going to maybe 
choose someone a little younger, richer, or more beautiful—so 
she resigns herself to being a teacher, to doing her duty, to a life 
without romance—and you really feel both the difficulty and the 
freedom of that resignation. It’s really brutal and moving.
            THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | ELIF BATUMAN 61

  Dostoevsky has some pretty stoical characters, too, like Father 
Zossima in The Brothers Karamazov. Of course he’s also a Chri-
stian. In general if you’re talking about the 19th-century Euro-
pean novel (my grad school beat…), Stoicism is going to be in 
there through some version of Christianity. But I mean the affinity 
between Stoicism and Christian thought is one of the ways Stoi-
cism has survived since antiquity.
  Epictetus does also make a cameo in J.D. Salinger’s Franny 
and Zooey.

I know you have a new book out, this time “a novel about not 
just discovering but inventing oneself.” Can you tell us a bit 
more about it? I also wanted to say that the cover is absolutely 
beautiful.
  Thank you! I love the cover. It’s a semi-autobiographical novel 
called The Idiot. The main character, Selin, is 18, the book takes 
place in her first year of college, and she’s a perfect example of 
someone who doesn’t know about Stoicism, who takes emotions 
for truth and finds signs everywhere, in all her almost physical, 
visceral, emotional reactions—and then every now and then she 
stops and is like “Are you fucking kidding me? This is life?” I’m 
hoping to write more books about Selin in the future, and, if I 
live long enough, I would love to do one where she discovers 
Epictetus. 
                    LETTER 12
                   On Old Age
                        A

Wherever I turn, I see evidences of my advancing years. I visited 
lately my country-place, and protested against the money which 
was spent on the tumble-down building. My bailiff maintained 
that the flaws were not due to his own carelessness; “he was doing 
everything possible, but the house was old.” And this was the 
house which grew under my own hands! What has the future 
in store for me, if stones of my own age are already crumbling?
  I was angry, and I embraced the first opportunity to vent my 
spleen in the bailiff’s presence. “It is clear,” I cried, “that these 
plane-trees are neglected; they have no leaves. Their branches are 
so gnarled and shrivelled; the boles are so rough and unkempt! 
This would not happen, if someone loosened the earth at their 
feet, and watered them.” The bailiff swore by my protecting deity 
that “he was doing everything possible, and never relaxed his 
efforts, but those trees were old.” Between you and me, I had 
planted those trees myself, I had seen them in their first leaf.
  Then I turned to the door and asked: “Who is that broken-
down dotard? You have done well to place him at the entrance; 
for he is outward bound.[1] Where did you get him? What pleasure 
did it give you to take up for burial some other man’s dead?”[2] But 
the slave said: “Don’t you know me, sir? I am Felicio; you used to 
bring me little images.[3] My father was Philositus the steward, and 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 63

I am your pet slave.” “The man is clean crazy,” I remarked. “Has 
my pet slave become a little boy again? But it is quite possible; his 
teeth are just dropping out.”[4]
  I owe it to my country-place that my old age became apparent 
whithersoever I turned. Let us cherish and love old age; for it 
is full of pleasure if one knows how to use it. Fruits are most 
welcome when almost over; youth is most charming at its close; 
the last drink delights the toper, the glass which souses him and 
puts the finishing touch on his drunkenness.
  Each pleasure reserves to the end the greatest delights which 
it contains. Life is most delightful when it is on the downward 
slope, but has not yet reached the abrupt decline. And I myself 
believe that the period which stands, so to speak, on the edge of 
the roof, possesses pleasures of its own. Or else the very fact of 
our not wanting pleasures has taken the place of the pleasures 
themselves. How comforting it is to have tired out one’s appetites, 
and to have done with them! 
  “But,” you say, “it is a nuisance to be looking death in the 
face!” Death, however, should be looked in the face by young 
and old alike. We are not summoned according to our rating on 
the censor’s list.[5] Moreover, no one is so old that it would be 
improper for him to hope for another day of existence. And one 
day, mind you, is a stage on life’s journey.
  Our span of life is divided into parts; it consists of large circles 
enclosing smaller. One circle embraces and bounds the rest; it 
reaches from birth to the last day of existence. The next circle 
limits the period of our young manhood. The third confines all 
of childhood in its circumference. Again, there is, in a class by 
itself, the year; it contains within itself all the divisions of time 
by the multiplication of which we get the total of life. The month 
is bounded by a narrower ring. The smallest circle of all is the 
64  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

day; but even a day has its beginning and its ending, its sunrise 
and its sunset.
  Hence Heraclitus, whose obscure style gave him his surname,[6] 
remarked: “One day is equal to every day.” Different persons have 
interpreted the saying in different ways. Some hold that days are 
equal in number of hours, and this is true; for if by “day” we 
mean twenty-four hours’ time, all days must be equal, inasmuch 
as the night acquires what the day loses. But others maintain that 
one day is equal to all days through resemblance, because the 
very longest space of time possesses no element which cannot 
be found in a single day—namely, light and darkness—and even 
to eternity day makes these alternations[7] more numerous, not 
different when it is shorter and different again when it is longer.
  Hence, every day ought to be regulated as if it closed the series, 
as if it rounded out and completed our existence.
  Pacuvius, who by long occupancy made Syria his own,[8] used 
to hold a regular burial sacrifice in his own honour, with wine and 
the usual funeral feasting, and then would have himself carried 
from the dining room to his chamber, while eunuchs applauded 
and sang in Greek to a musical accompaniment: “He has lived his 
life, he has lived his life!”
  Thus Pacuvius had himself carried out to burial every day. Let 
us, however, do from a good motive what he used to do from a 
debased motive; let us go to our sleep with joy and gladness; let 
us say:

     I have lived; the course which Fortune set for me
     Is finished.[9]

  And if God is pleased to add another day, we should welcome 
it with glad hearts. That man is happiest, and is secure in his 
own possession of himself, who can await the morrow without 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 65

apprehension. When a man has said: “I have lived!”, every morn-
ing he arises he receives a bonus.
  But now I ought to close my letter. “What?” you say; “shall it 
come to me without any little offering? “Be not afraid; it brings 
something—nay, more than something, a great deal. For what 
is more noble than the following saying[10] of which I make this 
letter the bearer: “It is wrong to live under constraint; but no 
man is constrained to live under constraint.” Of course not. On 
all sides lie many short and simple paths to freedom; and let us 
thank God that no man can be kept in life. We may spurn the 
very constraints that hold us
  “Epicurus,” you reply, “uttered these words; what are you 
doing with another’s property?” Any truth, I maintain, is my 
own property. And I shall continue to heap quotations from 
Epicurus upon you, so that all persons who swear by the words 
of another, and put a value upon the speaker and not upon the 
thing spoken, may understand that the best ideas are common 
property. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. A jesting allusion to the Roman funeral; the corpse’s feet pointing towards 
  the door.
  2. His former owner should have kept him and buried him.
  3. Small figures, generally of terra-cotta, were frequently given to children as 
  presents at the Saturnalia. Cf. Macrobius, i. 11. 49 sigila . . . pro se atque suis 
  piaculum.
  4. i.e., the old slave resembles a child in that he is losing his teeth (but for the 
  second time).
  5. i.e., seniores, as contrasted with iuniores.
  6. ὁ σκοτεινός, “the Obscure,” Frag. 106 Diels².
  7. i.e., of light and darkness.
  8. Usus  was the mere enjoyment of a piece of property; dominium was the 
  exclusive right to its control. Possession for one, or two, years conferred 
  ownership. See Leage, Roman Private Law, pp. 133, 152, and 164. 
  Although Pacuvius was governor so long that the province seemed to 
  belong to him, yet he knew he might die any day.
  9. Vergil, Aeneid, iv. 653.
10. Epicurus, Sprüche, 9 Wokte.
                    LETTER 13
              On Groundless Fears
                        A

     [If interested, a free audiobook version of this letter 
       can be found at this web address: tim.blog/13] 

I know that you have plenty of spirit; for even before you began 
to equip yourself with maxims which were wholesome and potent 
to overcome obstacles, you were taking pride in your contest with 
Fortune; and this is all the more true, now that you have grappled 
with Fortune and tested your powers. For our powers can never 
inspire in us implicit faith in ourselves except when many dif-
ficulties have confronted us on this side and on that, and have 
occasionally even come to close quarters with us. It is only in 
this way that the true spirit can be tested—the spirit that will 
never consent to come under the jurisdiction of things external 
to ourselves.
  This is the touchstone of such a spirit; no prizefighter can go 
with high spirits into the strife if he has never been beaten black 
and blue; the only contestant who can confidently enter the lists 
is the man who has seen his own blood, who has felt his teeth 
rattle beneath his opponent’s fist, who has been tripped and felt 
the full force of his adversary’s charge, who has been downed in 
body but not in spirit, one who, as often as he falls, rises again 
with greater defiance than ever.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 67

  So then, to keep up my figure, Fortune has often in the past 
got the upper hand of you, and yet you have not surrendered, 
but have leaped up and stood your ground still more eagerly. For 
manliness gains much strength by being challenged; nevertheless, 
if you approve, allow me to offer some additional safeguards by 
which you may fortify yourself.
  There are more things, Lucilius, likely to frighten us than there 
are to crush us; we suffer more often in imagination than in reality. 
I am not speaking with you in the Stoic strain but in my milder 
style. For it is our Stoic fashion to speak of all those things, which 
provoke cries and groans, as unimportant and beneath notice; 
but you and I must drop such great-sounding words, although, 
heaven knows, they are true enough. What I advise you to do is, 
not to be unhappy before the crisis comes; since it may be that 
the dangers before which you paled as if they were threatening 
you, will never come upon you; they certainly have not yet come.
  Accordingly, some things torment us more than they ought; 
some torment us before they ought; and some torment us 
when they ought not to torment us at all. We are in the habit of 
exaggerating, or imagining, or anticipating, sorrow.
  The first of these three faults[1] may be postponed for the 
present, because the subject is under discussion and the case is 
still in court, so to speak. That which I should call trifling, you will 
maintain to be most serious; for of course I know that some men 
laugh while being flogged, and that others wince at a box on the 
ear. We shall consider later whether these evils derive their power 
from their own strength, or from our own weakness.
  Do me the favour, when men surround you and try to talk you 
into believing that you are unhappy, to consider not what you hear 
but what you yourself feel, and to take counsel with your feelings 
and question yourself independently, because you know your own 
affairs better than anyone else does. Ask: “Is there any reason 
68  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

why these persons should condole with me? Why should they be 
worried or even fear some infection from me, as if troubles could 
be transmitted? Is there any evil involved, or is it a matter merely 
of ill report, rather than an evil?” Put the question voluntarily to 
yourself: “Am I tormented without sufficient reason, am I morose, 
and do I convert what is not an evil into what is an evil?”
  You may retort with the question: “How am I to know whether 
my sufferings are real or imaginary?” Here is the rule for such 
matters: we are tormented either by things present, or by things 
to come, or by both. As to things present, the decision is easy. 
Suppose that your person enjoys freedom and health, and that 
you do not suffer from any external injury. As to what may happen 
to it in the future, we shall see later on. Today there is nothing 
wrong with it.
  “But,” you say, “something will happen to it.” First of all, 
consider whether your proofs of future trouble are sure. For it is 
more often the case that we are troubled by our apprehensions, 
and that we are mocked by that mocker, rumour, which is wont 
to settle wars, but much more often settles individuals. Yes, my 
dear Lucilius; we agree too quickly with what people say. We do 
not put to the test those things which cause our fear; we do not 
examine into them; we blench and retreat just like soldiers who 
are forced to abandon their camp because of a dust-cloud raised 
by stampeding cattle, or are thrown into a panic by the spreading 
of some unauthenticated rumour.
  And somehow or other it is the idle report that disturbs us 
most. For truth has its own definite boundaries, but that which 
arises from uncertainty is delivered over to guesswork and the 
irresponsible license of a frightened mind. That is why no fear is 
so ruinous and so uncontrollable as panic fear. For other fears are 
groundless, but this fear is witless.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 69

  Let us, then, look carefully into the matter. It is likely that some 
troubles will befall us; but it is not a present fact. How often has 
the unexpected happened! How often has the expected never 
come to pass! And even though it is ordained to be, what does 
it avail to run out to meet your suffering? You will suffer soon 
enough, when it arrives; so look forward meanwhile to better 
things.
  What shall you gain by doing this? Time. There will be many 
happenings meanwhile which will serve to postpone, or end, or 
pass on to another person, the trials which are near or even in 
your very presence. A fire has opened the way to flight. Men 
have been let down softly by a catastrophe. Sometimes the sword 
has been checked even at the victim’s throat. Men have survived 
their own executioners. Even bad fortune is fickle. Perhaps it will 
come, perhaps not; in the meantime it is not. So look forward to 
better things.
  The mind at times fashions for itself false shapes of evil when 
there are no signs that point to any evil; it twists into the worst 
construction some word of doubtful meaning; or it fancies some 
personal grudge to be more serious than it really is, considering 
not how angry the enemy is, but to what lengths he may go if 
he is angry. But life is not worth living, and there is no limit 
to our sorrows, if we indulge our fears to the greatest possible 
extent; in this matter, let prudence help you, and contemn with a 
resolute spirit even when it is in plain sight. If you cannot do this, 
counter one weakness with another, and temper your fear with 
hope. There is nothing so certain among these objects of fear that 
it is not more certain still that things we dread sink into nothing 
and that things we hope for mock us.
  Accordingly, weigh carefully your hopes as well as your fears, 
and whenever all the elements are in doubt, decide in your own 
favour; believe what you prefer. And if fear wins a majority of the 
70  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

votes, incline in the other direction anyhow, and cease to harass 
your soul, reflecting continually that most mortals, even when 
no troubles are actually at hand or are certainly to be expected in 
the future, become excited and disquieted. No one calls a halt on 
himself, when he begins to be urged ahead; nor does he regulate 
his alarm according to the truth. No one says; “The author of the 
story is a fool, and he who has believed it is a fool, as well as he 
who fabricated it.” We let ourselves drift with every breeze; we 
are frightened at uncertainties, just as if they were certain. We 
observe no moderation. The slightest thing turns the scales and 
throws us forthwith into a panic.
  But I am ashamed either to admonish you sternly or to try to 
beguile you with such mild remedies.[2] Let another say. “Perhaps 
the worst will not happen.” You yourself must say. “Well, what if 
it does happen? Let us see who wins! Perhaps it happens for my 
best interests; it may be that such a death will shed credit upon 
my life.” Socrates was ennobled by the hemlock draught. Wrench 
from Cato’s hand his sword, the vindicator of liberty, and you 
deprive him of the greatest share of his glory.
  I am exhorting you far too long, since you need reminding 
rather than exhortation. The path on which I am leading you is 
not different from that on which your nature leads you; you were 
born to such conduct as I describe. Hence there is all the more 
reason why you should increase and beautify the good that is in 
you.
  But now, to close my letter, I have only to stamp the usual seal 
upon it, in other words, to commit thereto some noble message 
to be delivered to you: “The fool, with all his other faults, has this 
also, he is always getting ready to live.”[3] Reflect, my esteemed 
Lucilius, what this saying means, and you will see how revolting 
is the fickleness of men who lay down every day new foundations 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 71

of life, and begin to build up fresh hopes even at the brink of the 
grave. 
  Look within your own mind for individual instances; you will 
think of old men who are preparing themselves at that very hour 
for a political career, or for travel, or for business. And what is 
baser than getting ready to live when you are already old? I should 
not name the author of this motto, except that it is somewhat 
unknown to fame and is not one of those popular sayings of 
Epicurus which I have allowed myself to praise and to appropriate. 
Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Seneca dismisses the topic of “exaggerated ills,” because judgements will 
 differ concerning present troubles; the Stoics, for example, would not admit 
 that torture was an evil at all. He then passes on to the topic of “imaginary 
 ills,” §§ 6-7, and afterwards to “anticipated ills,” §§ 8-11. From § 12 on, he 
 deals with both imaginary and anticipated ills.
2. Cf. Solon’s καί με κωτίλλοντα λείως τραχὺν ἐκφανεῖ νόον.
3. Epicurus, Frag. 494 Usener.
                    LETTER 14
       On the Reasons for Withdrawing 
                 From the World
                        A

I confess that we all have an inborn affection for our body; I con-
fess that we are entrusted with its guardianship. I do not maintain 
that the body is not to be indulged at all; but I maintain that we 
must not be slaves to it. He will have many masters who makes 
his body his master, who is over-fearful in its behalf, who judges 
everything according to the body.
  We should conduct ourselves not as if we ought to live for the 
body, but as if we could not live without it. Our too great love for 
it makes us restless with fears, burdens us with cares, and exposes 
us to insults. Virtue is held too cheap by the man who counts his 
body too dear. We should cherish the body with the greatest care; 
but we should also be prepared, when reason, self-respect, and 
duty demand the sacrifice, to deliver it even to the flames.
  Let us, however, in so far as we can, avoid discomforts as well 
as dangers, and withdraw to safe ground, by thinking continually 
how we may repel all objects of fear. If I am not mistaken, there 
are three main classes of these: we fear want, we fear sickness, and 
we fear the troubles which result from the violence of the stronger.
  And of all these, that which shakes us most is the dread 
which hangs over us from our neighbour’s ascendancy; for it is 
accompanied by great outcry and uproar. But the natural evils 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 73

which I have mentioned—want and sickness, steal upon us silently 
with no shock of terror to the eye or to the ear. The other kind of 
evil comes, so to speak, in the form of a huge parade. Surrounding 
it is a retinue of swords and fire and chains and a mob of beasts 
to be let loose upon the disembowelled entrails of men.
  Picture to yourself under this head the prison, the cross, the 
rack, the hook, and the stake which they drive straight through 
a man until it protrudes from his throat. Think of human limbs 
torn apart by chariots driven in opposite directions, of the terrible 
shirt smeared and interwoven with inflammable materials, and of 
all the other contrivances devised by cruelty, in addition to those 
which I have mentioned![1]
  It is not surprising, then, if our greatest terror is of such a fate; 
for it comes in many shapes and its paraphernalia are terrifying. 
For just as the torturer accomplishes more in proportion to 
the number of instruments which he displays—indeed, the 
spectacle overcomes those who would have patiently withstood 
the suffering—similarly, of all the agencies which coerce and 
master our minds, the most effective are those which can make a 
display. Those other troubles are of course not less serious; I mean 
hunger, thirst, ulcers of the stomach, and fever that parches our 
very bowels. They are, however, secret; they have no bluster and 
no heralding; but these, like huge arrays of war, prevail by virtue 
of their display and their equipment.
  Let us, therefore, see to it that we abstain from giving offence. 
It is sometimes the people that we ought to fear; or sometimes 
a body of influential oligarchs in the Senate, if the method of 
governing the State is such that most of the business is done by 
that body; and sometimes individuals equipped with power by 
the people and against the people. It is burdensome to keep the 
friendship of all such persons; it is enough not to make enemies 
of them. So the wise man will never provoke the anger of those 
74  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

in power; nay, he will even turn his course, precisely as he would 
turn from a storm if he were steering a ship.
  When you travelled to Sicily, you crossed the Straits. The 
reckless pilot scorned the blustering South Wind—the wind 
which roughens the Sicilian Sea and forces it into choppy currents; 
he sought not the shore on the left,[2] but the strand hard by the 
place where Charybdis throws the seas into confusion. Your more 
careful pilot, however, questions those who know the locality as 
to the tides and the meaning of the clouds; he holds his course 
far from that region notorious for its swirling waters. Our wise 
man does the same he shuns a strong man who may be injurious 
to him, making a point of not seeming to avoid him, because an 
important part of one’s safety lies in not seeking safety openly; 
for what one avoids, one condemns,
  We should therefore look about us, and see how we may 
protect ourselves from the mob. And first of all, we should have 
no cravings like theirs; for rivalry results in strife. Again, let us 
possess nothing that can be snatched from us to the great profit 
of a plotting foe. Let there be as little booty as possible on your 
person. No one sets out to shed the blood of his fellow-men for 
the sake of bloodshed—at any rate very few. More murderers 
speculate on their profits than give vent to hatred. If you are 
empty-handed, the highwayman passes you by: even along an 
infested road, the poor may travel in peace.[3]
  Next, we must follow the old adage and avoid three things with 
special care: hatred, jealousy, and scorn. And wisdom alone can 
show you how this may be done. It is hard to observe a mean; we 
must be chary of letting the fear of jealousy lead us into becoming 
objects of scorn, lest, when we choose not to stamp others down, 
we let them think that they can stamp us down. The power to 
inspire fear has caused many men to be in fear.[4] Let us withdraw 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 75

ourselves in every way; for it is as harmful to be scorned as to be 
admired.
  One must therefore take refuge in philosophy; this pursuit, 
not only in the eyes of good men, but also in the eyes of those 
who are even moderately bad, is a sort of protecting emblem.[5] 
For speechmaking at the bar, or any other pursuit that claims 
the people’s attention, wins enemies for a man; but philosophy is 
peaceful and minds her own business. Men cannot scorn her; she 
is honoured by every profession, even the vilest among them. Evil 
can never grow so strong, and nobility of character can never be 
so plotted against, that the name of philosophy shall cease to be 
worshipful and sacred.
  Philosophy itself, however should be practiced with calmness 
and moderation.
  “Very well, then,” you retort, “do you regard the philosophy of 
Marcus Cato as moderate? Cato’s voice strove to check a civil war. 
Cato parted the swords of maddened chieftains. When some fell 
foul of Pompey and others fell foul of Caesar, Cato defied both 
parties at once!”
  Nevertheless, one may well question whether, in those days, 
a wise man ought to have taken any part in public affairs, and 
ask: “What do you mean, Marcus Cato? It is not now a question 
of freedom; long since has freedom gone to rack and ruin. The 
question is, whether it is Caesar or Pompey who controls the State. 
Why, Cato, should you take sides in that dispute? It is no business 
of yours; a tyrant is being selected. What does it concern you who 
conquers? The better man may win; but the winner is bound to 
be the worse man.”[6] I have referred to Cato’s final rôle. But even 
in previous years the wise man was not permitted to intervene in 
such plundering of the state; for what could Cato do but raise his 
voice and utter unavailing words? At one time he was “bustled” 
by the mob and spat upon and forcibly removed from the forum 
76  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

and marked for exile; at another, he was taken straight to prison 
from the senate-chamber.
  However, we shall consider later[7] whether the wise man ought 
to give his attention to politics; meanwhile, I beg you to consider 
those Stoics who, shut out from public life, have withdrawn into 
privacy for the purpose of improving men’s existence and framing 
laws for the human race without incurring the displeasure of 
those in power. The wise man will not upset the customs of the 
people, nor will he invite the attention of the populace by any 
novel ways of living.
  “What then? Can one who follows out this Plan be safe in any 
case?” I cannot guarantee you this any more than I can guarantee 
good health in the case of a man who observes moderation; 
although, as a matter of fact, good health results from such 
moderation. Sometimes a vessel perishes in harbour; but what 
do you think happens on the open sea? And how much more 
beset with danger that man would be, who even in his leisure is 
not secure, if he were busily working at many things! Innocent 
persons sometimes perish; who would deny that? But the guilty 
perish more frequently. A soldier’s skill is not at fault if he receives 
the death-blow through his armour.
  And finally, the wise man regards the reason for all his actions, 
but not the results. The beginning is in our own power; fortune 
decides the issue, but I do not allow her to pass sentence upon 
myself. You may say: “But she can inflict a measure of suffering 
and of trouble.” The highwayman does not pass sentence when 
he slays.
  Now you are stretching forth your hand for the daily gift. 
Golden indeed will be the gift with which I shall load you; and, 
inasmuch as we have mentioned gold, let me tell you how its use 
and enjoyment may bring you greater pleasure. “He who needs 
riches least, enjoys riches most.”[8] “Author’s name, please!” you 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     77

say. Now, to show you how generous I am, it is my intent to praise 
the dicta of other schools. The phrase belongs to Epicurus, or 
Metrodorus, or some one of that particular thinking-shop.
   But what difference does it make who spoke the words? They 
were uttered for the world. He who craves riches feels fear on 
their account. No man, however, enjoys a blessing that brings 
anxiety; he is always trying to add a little more. While he puzzles 
over increasing his wealth, he forgets how to use it. He collects 
his accounts, he wears out the pavement in the forum, he turns 
over his ledger[9]—in short, he ceases to be master and becomes 
a steward. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Cf. Tacitus, Annals, xv. 44, describing the tortures practiced upon 
  the Christians.
2. Scylla was a rock on the Italian side of the Straits. Charybdis was a 
  whirlpool on the Sicillian side. Servius on Vergil, Aeneid, iii, 420 defines the 
  dextrum as the shore “to the right of those coming from the Ionian sea.”
3. Cf. Juvenal, x. 22 cantabit vacuus coram latrone viator.
4. Cf. the proverb necesse est multos timeat quem multi timent, which is found 
  in Seneca, de Ira, ii. 11. 4 and often elsewhere.
5. Literally, “is as good as a (priest’s) fillet.”
6. Cf. Tac. Hist. i. 50 inter duos quorum bello solum id scires, deteriorem 
  fore vicisset.
7. See, for example, Letter xxii.
8. Epicurus, Ep. iii. p. 63. 19 Usener.
9. Named kalendarium because interest was reckoned according to the 
  Kalends of each month.
                    LETTER 15
             On Brawn and Brains
                        A

The old Romans had a custom which survived even into my 
lifetime. They would add to the opening words of a letter: “If you 
are well, it is well; I also am well.” Persons like ourselves would 
do well to say. “If you are studying philosophy, it is well.” For this 
is just what “being well” means. Without philosophy the mind is 
sickly, and the body, too, though it may be very powerful, is strong 
only as that of a madman or a lunatic is strong.
  This, then, is the sort of health you should primarily cultivate; 
the other kind of health comes second, and will involve little 
effort, if you wish to be well physically. It is indeed foolish, my 
dear Lucilius, and very unsuitable for a cultivated man, to work 
hard over developing the muscles and broadening the shoulders 
and strengthening the lungs. For although your heavy feeding 
produce good results and your sinews grow solid, you can never 
be a match, either in strength or in weight, for a first-class bull. 
Besides, by overloading the body with food you strangle the soul 
and render it less active. Accordingly, limit the flesh as much as 
possible, and allow free play to the spirit.
  Many inconveniences beset those who devote themselves to 
such pursuits. In the first place, they have their exercises, at which 
they must work and waste their life-force and render it less fit 
to bear a strain or the severer studies. Second, their keen edge 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 79

is dulled by heavy eating. Besides, they must take orders from 
slaves of the vilest stamp—men who alternate between the oil-
flask[1] and the flagon, whose day passes satisfactorily if they have 
got up a good perspiration and quaffed, to make good what they 
have lost in sweat, huge draughts of liquor which will sink deeper 
because of their fasting. Drinking and sweating—it’s the life of a 
dyspeptic![2]
  Now there are short and simple exercises which tire the body 
rapidly, and so save our time; and time is something of which 
we ought to keep strict account. These exercises are running, 
brandishing weights, and jumping—high-jumping or broad-
jumping, or the kind which I may call, “the Priest’s dance,”[3] or, in 
slighting terms, “the clothes-cleaner’s jump.”[4] Select for practice 
any one of these, and you will find it plain and easy.
  But whatever you do, come back soon from body to mind. The 
mind must be exercised both day and night, for it is nourished by 
moderate labour. and this form of exercise need not be hampered 
by cold or hot weather, or even by old age. Cultivate that good 
which improves with the years.
  Of course I do not command you to be always bending over 
your books and your writing materials; the mind must have a 
change—but a change of such a kind that it is not unnerved, but 
merely unbent. Riding in a litter shakes up the body, and does not 
interfere with study: one may read, dictate, converse, or listen to 
another; nor does walking prevent any of these things.
  You need not scorn voice-culture; but I forbid you to practice 
raising and lowering your voice by scales and specific intonations. 
What if you should next propose to take lessons in walking! If you 
consult the sort of person whom starvation has taught new tricks, 
you will have someone to regulate your steps, watch every mouth-
ful as you eat, and go to such lengths as you yourself, by enduring 
him and believing in him, have encouraged his effrontery to go. 
80  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

“What, then?” you will ask; “is my voice to begin at the outset 
with shouting and straining the lungs to the utmost?” No; the 
natural thing is that it be aroused to such a pitch by easy stages, 
just as persons who are wrangling begin with ordinary conver-
sational tones and then pass to shouting at the top of their lungs. 
No speaker cries “Help me, citizens!” at the outset of his speech.
  Therefore, whenever your spirit’s impulse prompts you, raise 
a hubbub, now in louder now in milder tones, according as your 
voice, as well as your spirit, shall suggest to you, when you are 
moved to such a performance. Then let your voice, when you rein 
it in and call it back to earth, come down gently, not collapse; 
it should trail off in tones half way between high and low, and 
should not abruptly drop from its raving in the uncouth manner 
of countrymen. For our purpose is, not to give the voice exercise, 
but to make it give us exercise.
  You see, I have relieved you of no slight bother; and I shall 
throw in a little complementary present—it is Greek, too. Here 
is the proverb; it is an excellent one: “The fool’s life is empty of 
gratitude and full of fears; its course lies wholly toward the future.” 
“Who uttered these words?” you say. The same writer whom I 
mentioned before.[5] And what sort of life do you think is meant 
by the fool’s life? That of Baba and Isio?[6] No; he means our own, 
for we are plunged by our blind desires into ventures which will 
harm us, but certainly will never satisfy us; for if we could be 
satisfied with anything, we should have been satisfied long ago; 
nor do we reflect how pleasant it is to demand nothing, how noble 
it is to be contented and not to be dependent upon Fortune.
  Therefore continually remind yourself, Lucilius, how many 
ambitions you have attained. When you see many ahead of you, 
think how many are behind! If you would thank the gods, and be 
grateful for your past life, you should contemplate how many men 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 81

you have outstripped. But what have you to do with the others? 
You have outstripped yourself.
  Fix a limit which you will not even desire to pass, should you 
have the power. At last, then, away with all these treacherous 
goods! They look better to those who hope for them than to those 
who have attained them. If there were anything substantial in 
them, they would sooner or later satisfy you; as it is, they merely 
rouse the drinkers’ thirst. Away with fripperies which only serve 
for show! As to what the future’s uncertain lot has in store, why 
should I demand of Fortune that she give rather than demand of 
myself that I should not crave? And why should l crave? Shall I 
heap up my winnings, and forget that man’s lot is unsubstantial? 
For what end should I toil? Lo, today is the last; if not, it is near 
the last. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., the prize-ring; the contestants were rubbed with oil before the fight 
 began.
2. Cardiacus  meant, according to Pliny, N. H. xxiii. 1. 24, a sort of dyspepsia 
 accompanied by fever and perspiration. Compare the man in Juvenal v. 32, 
 who will not send a spoonful of wine to a friend ill of this complaint.
3. Named from the Salii, or leaping priests of Mars.
4. The fuller, or washerman, cleansed the clothes by leaping and stamping 
 upon them in the tub.
5. Epicurus, Frag. 491 Usener.
6. Court fools of the period.

                   LETTER 16
       On Philosophy, the Guide of Life
                       A

It is clear to you, I am sure, Lucilius, that no man can live a happy 
life, or even a supportable life, without the study of wisdom; you 
know also that a happy life is reached when our wisdom is brought 
to completion, but that life is at least endurable even when our 
wisdom is only begun. This idea, however, clear though it is, must 
be strengthened and implanted more deeply by daily reflection; it 
is more important for you to keep the resolutions you have already 
made than to go on and make noble ones. You must persevere, 
must develop new strength by continuous study, until that which 
is only a good inclination becomes a good settled purpose.
  Hence you no longer need to come to me with much talk and 
protestations; I know that you have made great progress. I under-
stand the feelings which prompt your words; they are not feigned 
or specious words. Nevertheless I shall tell you what I think—that 
at present I have hopes for you, but not yet perfect trust. And I 
wish that you would adopt the same attitude towards yourself; 
there is no reason why you should put confidence in yourself 
too quickly and readily. Examine yourself; scrutinize and observe 


Artwork opposite by Nimit Malavia
84  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

yourself in divers ways; but mark, before all else, whether it is in 
philosophy or merely in life itself[1] that you have made progress.
  Philosophy is no trick to catch the public; it is not devised for 
show. It is a matter, not of words, but of facts. It is not pursued in 
order that the day may yield some amusement before it is spent, 
or that our leisure may be relieved of a tedium that irks us. It 
moulds and constructs the soul; it orders our life, guides our 
conduct, shows us what we should do and what we should leave 
undone; it sits at the helm and directs our course as we waver 
amid uncertainties. Without it, no one can live fearlessly or in 
peace of mind. Countless things that happen every hour call for 
advice; and such advice is to be sought in philosophy.
  Perhaps someone will say: “How can philosophy help me, if 
Fate exists? Of what avail is philosophy, if God rules the universe? 
Of what avail is it, if Chance governs everything? For not only 
is it impossible to change things that are determined, but it is 
also impossible to plan beforehand against what is undetermined; 
either God has forestalled my plans, and decided what I am to do, 
or else Fortune gives no free play to my plans.”
  Whether the truth, Lucilius, lies in one or in all of these views, 
we must be philosophers; whether Fate binds us down by an 
inexorable law, or whether God as arbiter of the universe has 
arranged everything, or whether Chance drives and tosses human 
affairs without method, philosophy ought to be our defence. She 
will encourage us to obey God cheerfully, but Fortune defiantly; 
she will teach us to follow God and endure Chance.
  But it is not my purpose now to be led into a discussion as to 
what is within our own control—if foreknowledge is supreme, or 
if a chain of fated events drags us along in its clutches, or if the 
sudden and the unexpected play the tyrant over us; I return now 
to my warning and my exhortation, that you should not allow 
the impulse of your spirit to weaken and grow cold. Hold fast to 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 85

it and establish it firmly, in order that what is now impulse may 
become a habit of the mind.
  If I know you well, you have already been trying to find out, 
from the very beginning of my letter, what little contribution it 
brings to you. Sift the letter, and you will find it. You need not 
wonder at any genius of mine; for as yet I am lavish only with 
other men’s property. But why did I say “other men”? Whatever 
is well said by anyone is mine. This also is a saying of Epicurus:[2] 
“If you live according to nature, you will never be poor; if you live 
according to opinion, you will never be rich.”
  Nature’s wants are slight; the demands of opinion are boundless. 
Suppose that the property of many millionaires is heaped up in 
your possession. Assume that fortune carries you far beyond the 
limits of a private income, decks you with gold, clothes you in 
purple, and brings you to such a degree of luxury and wealth that 
you can bury the earth under your marble floors; that you may 
not only possess, but tread upon, riches. Add statues, paintings, 
and whatever any art has devised for the luxury; you will only 
learn from such things to crave still greater.
  Natural desires are limited; but those which spring from false 
opinion can have no stopping-point. The false has no limits. 
When you are travelling on a road, there must be an end; but 
when astray, your wanderings are limitless. Recall your steps, 
therefore, from idle things, and when you would know whether 
that which you seek is based upon a natural or upon a misleading 
desire, consider whether it can stop at any definite point. If you 
find, after having travelled far, that there is a more distant goal 
always in view, you may be sure that this condition is contrary 
to nature. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., have merely advanced in years.
2. Frag. 201 Usener.
                    LETTER 17
           On Philosophy and Riches
                        A

Cast away everything of that sort, if you are wise; nay, rather that 
you may be wise; strive toward a sound mind at top speed and 
with your whole strength. If any bond holds you back, untie it, or 
sever it. “But,” you say, “my estate delays me; I wish to make such 
disposition of it that it may suffice for me when I have nothing 
to do, lest either poverty be a burden to me, or I myself a burden 
to others.”
  You do not seem, when you say this, to know the strength 
and power of that good which you are considering. You do 
indeed grasp the all important thing, the great benefit which 
philosophy confers, but you do not yet discern accurately its 
various functions, nor do you yet know how great is the help 
we receive from philosophy in everything, everywhere—how, (to 
use Cicero’s language,[1]) it not only succours us in the greatest 
matters but also descends to the smallest. Take my advice; call 
wisdom into consultation; she will advise you not to sit for ever 
at your ledger.
  Doubtless, your object, what you wish to attain by such 
postponement of your studies, is that poverty may not have to 
be feared by you. But what if it is something to be desired? Riches 
have shut off many a man from the attainment of wisdom; poverty 
is unburdened and free from care. When the trumpet sounds, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 87

the poor man knows that he is not being attacked; when there is 
a cry of “Fire,”[2] he only seeks a way of escape, and does not ask 
what he can save; if the poor man must go to sea, the harbour 
does not resound, nor do the wharves bustle with the retinue of 
one individual. No throng of slaves surrounds the poor man—
slaves for whose mouths the master must covet the fertile crops 
of regions beyond the sea.
  It is easy to fill a few stomachs, when they are well trained 
and crave nothing else but to be filled. Hunger costs but little; 
squeamishness costs much. Poverty is contented with fulfilling 
pressing needs.
  Why, then, should you reject Philosophy as a comrade?
  Even the rich man copies her ways when he is in his senses. If 
you wish to have leisure for your mind, either be a poor man, or 
resemble a poor man. Study cannot be helpful unless you take 
pains to live simply; and living simply is voluntary poverty. Away, 
then, with all excuses like: “I have not yet enough; when I have 
gained the desired amount, then I shall devote myself wholly to 
philosophy.” And yet this ideal, which you are putting off and 
placing second to other interests, should be secured first of all; you 
should begin with it. You retort: “I wish to acquire something to 
live on.” Yes, but learn while you are acquiring it; for if anything 
forbids you to live nobly, nothing forbids you to die nobly.
  There is no reason why poverty should call us away from 
philosophy—no, nor even actual want. For when hastening after 
wisdom, we must endure even hunger. Men have endured hunger 
when their towns were besieged, and what other reward for their 
endurance did they obtain than that they did not fall under the 
conqueror’s power? How much greater is the promise of the prize 
of everlasting liberty, and the assurance that we need fear neither 
God nor man! Even though we starve, we must reach that goal.
88  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  Armies have endured all manner of want, have lived on roots, 
and have resisted hunger by means of food too revolting to men-
tion. All this they have suffered to gain a kingdom, and—what is 
more marvellous—to gain a kingdom that will be another’s. Will 
any man hesitate to endure poverty, in order that he may free his 
mind from madness?
  Therefore one should not seek to lay up riches first; one may 
attain to philosophy, however, even without money for the 
journey.
  It is indeed so. After you have come to possess all other things, 
shall you then wish to possess wisdom also? Is philosophy to 
be the last requisite in life—a sort of supplement? Nay, your 
plan should be this: be a philosopher now, whether you have 
anything or not—for if you have anything, how do you know that 
you have not too much already?—but if you have nothing, seek 
understanding first, before anything else.
  “But,” you say, “I shall lack the necessities of life.” In the first 
place, you cannot lack them; because nature demands but little, 
and the wise man suits his needs to nature. But if the utmost pinch 
of need arrives, he will quickly take leave of life and cease being a 
trouble to himself. If, however, his means of existence are meagre 
and scanty, he will make the best of them, without being anxious 
or worried about anything more than the bare necessities; he will 
do justice to his belly and his shoulders; with free and happy 
spirit he will laugh at the bustling of rich men, and the flurried 
ways of those who are hastening after wealth, and say: “Why of 
your own accord postpone your real life to the distant future? 
Shall you wait for some interest to fall due, or for some income 
on your merchandise, or for a place in the will of some wealthy 
old man, when you can be rich here and now. Wisdom offers 
wealth in ready money, and pays it over to those in whose eyes 
she has made wealth superfluous.” These remarks refer to other 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 89

men; you are nearer the rich class. Change the age in which you 
live, and you have too much. But in every age, what is enough 
remains the same.
  I might close my letter at this point, if I had not got you into 
bad habits. One cannot greet Parthian royalty without bringing a 
gift; and in your case I cannot say farewell without paying a price. 
But what of it? I shall borrow from Epicurus:[3] “The acquisition 
of riches has been for many men, not an end, but a change, of 
troubles.”
  I do not wonder. For the fault is not in the wealth, but in the 
mind itself. That which had made poverty a burden to us, has 
made riches also a burden. Just as it matters little whether you lay 
a sick man on a wooden or on a golden bed, for whithersoever 
he be moved he will carry his malady with him; so one need not 
care whether the diseased mind is bestowed upon riches or upon 
poverty. His malady goes with the man. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Perhaps from the Hortensius; see Müller, Frag. 98, p. 326.
2. Literally, “Water!”
3. Frag. 479 Usener.
                    LETTER 18
            On Festivals and Fasting
                        A

     [If interested, a free audiobook version of this letter 
       can be found at this web address: tim.blog/18] 

It is the month of December, and yet the city is at this very 
moment in a sweat. License is given to the general merrymaking. 
Everything resounds with mighty preparations—as if the Satur-
nalia differed at all from the usual business day! So true it is that 
the difference is nil, that I regard as correct the remark of the 
man who said: “Once December was a month; now it is a year.”[1]
  If I had you with me, I should be glad to consult you and find 
out what you think should be done—whether we ought to make 
no change in our daily routine, or whether, in order not to be 
out of sympathy with the ways of the public, we should dine in 
gayer fashion and doff the toga.[2] As it is now, we Romans have 
changed our dress for the sake of pleasure and holiday-making, 
though in former times that was only customary when the State 
was disturbed and had fallen on evil days.
  I am sure that, if I know you aright, playing the part of an 
umpire you would have wished that we should be neither like the 
liberty-capped[3] throng in all ways, nor in all ways unlike them; 
unless, perhaps, this is just the season when we ought to lay down 
the law to the soul, and bid it be alone in refraining from pleasures 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 91

just when the whole mob has let itself go in pleasures; for this is 
the surest proof which a man can get of his own constancy, if he 
neither seeks the things which are seductive and allure him to 
luxury, nor is led into them.
  It shows much more courage to remain dry and sober when 
the mob is drunk and vomiting; but it shows greater self-control 
to refuse to withdraw oneself and to do what the crowd does, but 
in a different way—thus neither making oneself conspicuous nor 
becoming one of the crowd. For one may keep holiday without 
extravagance.
  I am so firmly determined, however, to test the constancy of 
your mind that, drawing from the teachings of great men, I shall 
give you also a lesson: Set aside a certain number of days, during 
which you shall be content with the scantiest and cheapest fare, 
with coarse and rough dress, saying to yourself the while: “Is this 
the condition that I feared?”
  It is precisely in times of immunity from care that the soul 
should toughen itself beforehand for occasions of greater stress, 
and it is while Fortune is kind that it should fortify itself against 
her violence. In days of peace the soldier performs manoeuvres, 
throws up earthworks with no enemy in sight, and wearies himself 
by gratuitous toil, in order that he may be equal to unavoidable 
toil. If you would not have a man flinch when the crisis comes, 
train him before it comes. Such is the course which those men[4] 
have followed who, in their imitation of poverty, have every 
month come almost to want, that they might never recoil from 
what they had so often rehearsed.
  You need not suppose that I mean meals like Timon’s, or 
“paupers’ huts,”[5] or any other device which luxurious millionaires 
use to beguile the tedium of their lives. Let the pallet be a real one, 
and the coarse cloak; let the bread be hard and grimy. Endure all 
this for three or four days at a time, sometimes for more, so that 
92  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

it may be a test of yourself instead of a mere hobby. Then, I assure 
you, my dear Lucilius, you will leap for joy when filled with a 
pennyworth of food, and you will understand that a man’s peace 
of mind does not depend upon Fortune; for, even when angry she 
grants enough for our needs.
  There is no reason, however, why you should think that you 
are doing anything great; for you will merely be doing what many 
thousands of slaves and many thousands of poor men are doing 
every day. But you may credit yourself with this item—that you 
will not be doing it under compulsion, and that it will be as easy 
for you to endure it permanently as to make the experiment from 
time to time. Let us practice our strokes on the “dummy”;[6] let us 
become intimate with poverty, so that Fortune may not catch us 
off our guard. We shall be rich with all the more comfort, if we 
once learn how far poverty is from being a burden.
  Even Epicurus, the teacher of pleasure, used to observe stated 
intervals, during which he satisfied his hunger in niggardly 
fashion; he wished to see whether he thereby fell short of full 
and complete happiness, and, if so, by what amount he fell short, 
and whether this amount was worth purchasing at the price of 
great effort. At any rate, he makes such a statement in the well 
known letter written to Polyaenus in the archonship of Charinus.
[7] Indeed, he boasts that he himself lived on less than a penny, but 
that Metrodorus, whose progress was not yet so great, needed a 
whole penny.
  Do you think that there can be fullness on such fare? Yes, and 
there is pleasure also—not that shifty and fleeting Pleasure which 
needs a fillip now and then, but a pleasure that is steadfast and 
sure. For though water, barley-meal, and crusts of barley-bread, 
are not a cheerful diet, yet it is the highest kind of Pleasure to be 
able to derive pleasure from this sort of food, and to have reduced 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 93

one’s needs to that modicum which no unfairness of Fortune can 
snatch away.
  Even prison fare is more generous; and those who have been 
set apart for capital punishment are not so meanly fed by the man 
who is to execute them. Therefore, what a noble soul must one 
have, to descend of one’s own free will to a diet which even those 
who have been sentenced to death have not to fear! This is indeed 
forestalling the spearthrusts of Fortune.
  So begin, my dear Lucilius, to follow the custom of these men, 
and set apart certain days on which you shall withdraw from 
your business and make yourself at home with the scantiest fare. 
Establish business relations with poverty.

     Dare, O my friend, to scorn the sight of wealth,
     And mould thyself to kinship with thy God.[8]

  For he alone is in kinship with God who has scorned wealth. 
Of course I do not forbid you to possess it, but I would have 
you reach the point at which you possess it dauntlessly; this can 
be accomplished only by persuading yourself that you can live 
happily without it as well as with it, and by regarding riches always 
as likely to elude you.
  But now I must begin to fold up my letter. “Settle your debts 
first,” you cry. Here is a draft on Epicurus; he will pay down the 
sum: “Ungoverned anger begets madness.”[9] You cannot help 
knowing the truth of these words, since you have had not only 
slaves, but also enemies.
  But indeed this emotion blazes out against all sorts of persons; it 
springs from love as much as from hate, and shows itself not less in 
serious matters than in jest and sport. And it makes no difference 
how important the provocation may be, but into what kind of soul 
it penetrates. Similarly with fire; it does not matter how great is the 
flame, but what it falls upon. For solid timbers have repelled a very 
94    THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

great fire; conversely, dry and easily inflammable stuff nourishes 
the slightest spark into a conflagration. So it is with anger, my dear 
Lucilius; the outcome of a mighty anger is madness, and hence 
anger should be avoided, not merely that we may escape excess, 
but that we may have a healthy mind. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., the whole year is a Saturnalia.
2. For a dinner dress.
3. The pilleus was worn by newly freed slaves and by the Roman populace 
  on festal occasions.
4. The Epicurians. Cf. § 9 and Epicurus, Frag. 158. Usener.
5. Cf. Ep. c. 6 and Martial, iii. 48.
6. The post which gladiators used when preparing themselves for combats 
  in the arena.
7. Usually identified with Chaerimus, 307-8 B.C. But Wilhelm, 
  Öster Jahreshefte, V.136, has shown that there is probably no confusion 
  of names. A Charinus was archon at Athens in 290-89; see Johnson, 
  Class. Phil. ix. p. 256.
8. Vergil, Aeneid, viii. 364 f.
9. Frag. 484 Usener.
                   LETTER 19
       On Worldliness and Retirement
                       A

I leap for joy whenever I receive letters from you. For they fill me 
with hope; they are now not mere assurances concerning you, but 
guarantees. And I beg and pray you to proceed in this course; for 
what better request could I make of a friend than one which is to 
be made for his own sake? If possible, withdraw yourself from all 
the business of which you speak; and if you cannot do this, tear 
yourself away. We have dissipated enough of our time already—let 
us in old age begin to pack up our baggage.
  Surely there is nothing in this that men can begrudge us. We 
have spent our lives on the high seas; let us die in harbour. Not 
that I would advise you to try to win fame by your retirement; 
one’s retirement should neither be paraded nor concealed. Not 
concealed, I say, for I shall not go so far in urging you as to expect 
you to condemn all men as mad and then seek out for yourself a 
hiding-place and oblivion; rather make this your business, that 
your retirement be not conspicuous, though it should be obvious.
  In the second place, while those whose choice is unhampered 
from the start will deliberate on that other question, whether 
they wish to pass their lives in obscurity, in your case there is 
not a free choice. Your ability and energy have thrust you into 
the work of the world; so have the charm of your writings and 
the friendships you have made with famous and notable men. 
96  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

Renown has already taken you by storm. You may sink yourself 
into the depths of obscurity and utterly hide yourself; yet your 
earlier acts will reveal you.
  You cannot keep lurking in the dark; much of the old gleam 
will follow you wherever you fly.
  Peace you can claim for yourself without being disliked by 
anyone, without any sense of loss, and without any pangs of spirit. 
For what will you leave behind you that you can imagine yourself 
reluctant to leave? Your clients? But none of these men courts 
you for yourself; they merely court something from you. People 
used to hunt friends, but now they hunt pelf; if a lonely old man 
changes his will, the morning-caller transfers himself to another 
door. Great things cannot be bought for small sums; so reckon 
up whether it is preferable to leave your own true self, or merely 
some of your belongings.
  Would that you had had the privilege of growing old amid 
the limited circumstances of your origin, and that fortune had 
not raised you to such heights! You were removed far from the 
sight of wholesome living by your swift rise to prosperity, by your 
province, by your position as procurator,[1] and by all that such 
things promise; you will next acquire more important duties and 
after them still more. And what will be the result?
  Why wait until there is nothing left for you to crave? That time 
will never come. We hold that there is a succession of causes, 
from which fate is woven; similarly, you may be sure, there is a 
succession in our desires; for one begins where its predecessor 
ends. You have been thrust into an existence which will never of 
itself put an end to your wretchedness and your slavery. Withdraw 
your chafed neck from the yoke; it is better that it should be cut 
off once for all, than galled for ever.
  If you retreat to privacy, everything will be on a smaller scale, 
but you will be satisfied abundantly; in your present condition, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 97

however, there is no satisfaction in the plenty which is heaped 
upon you on all sides. Would you rather be poor and sated, or 
rich and hungry? Prosperity is not only greedy, but it also lies 
exposed to the greed of others. And as long as nothing satisfies 
you, you yourself cannot satisfy others.
  “But,” you say, “how can I take my leave?” Any way you 
please. Reflect how many hazards you have ventured for the sake 
of money, and how much toil you have undertaken for a title! 
You must dare something to gain leisure, also—or else grow old 
amid the worries of procuratorships[2] abroad and subsequently 
of civil duties at home, living in turmoil and in ever fresh floods 
of responsibilities, which no man has ever succeeded in avoiding 
by unobtrusiveness or by seclusion of life. For what bearing on the 
case has your personal desire for a secluded life? Your position in 
the world desires the opposite! What if, even now, you allow that 
position to grow greater? But all that is added to your successes 
will be added to your fears.
  At this point I should like to quote a saying of Maecenas, who 
spoke the truth when he stood on the very summit:[3] “There’s 
thunder even on the loftiest peaks.” If you ask me in what book 
these words are found, they occur in the volume entitled Pro-
metheus.[4] He simply meant to say that these lofty peaks have 
their tops surrounded with thunder-storms. But is any power 
worth so high a price that a man like you would ever, in order 
to obtain it, adopt a style so debauched as that?[5] Maecenas was 
indeed a man of parts, who would have left a great pattern for 
Roman oratory to follow, had his good fortune not made him 
effeminate—nay, had it not emasculated him! An end like his 
awaits you also, unless you forthwith shorten sail and—as Mae-
cenas was not willing to do until it was too late—hug the shore!
  This saying of Maecenas’s might have squared my account 
with you; but I feel sure, knowing you, that you will get out an 
98  THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

injunction against me, and that you will be unwilling to accept 
payment of my debt in such crude and debased currency. However 
that may be, I shall draw on the account of Epicurus.[6] He says: 
“You must reflect carefully beforehand with whom you are to 
eat and drink, rather than what you are to eat and drink. For a 
dinner of meats without the company of a friend is like the life 
of a lion or a wolf.”
  This privilege will not be yours unless you withdraw from 
the world; otherwise, you will have as guests only those whom 
your slave-secretary[7] sorts out from the throng of callers. It is, 
however, a mistake to select your friend in the reception-hall or 
to test him at the dinner-table. The most serious misfortune for 
a busy man who is overwhelmed by his possessions is, that he 
believes men to be his friends when he himself is not a friend to 
them, and that he deems his favours to be effective in winning 
friends, although, in the case of certain men, the more they owe, 
the more they hate. A trifling debt makes a man your debtor; a 
large one makes him an enemy.
  “What,” you say, “do not kindnesses establish friendships?” 
They do, if one has had the privilege of choosing those who are 
to receive them, and if they are placed judiciously, instead of being 
scattered broadcast.
  Therefore, while you are beginning to call your mind your 
own, meantime apply this maxim of the wise: consider that it is 
more important who receives a thing, than what it is he receives. 
Farewell.

Footnotes
1. See the introduction, p. ix.
2. The procurator did the work of a quaestor in an imperial province. 
 Positions at Rome to which Lucilius might succeed were such as praefectus 
 annonae, in charge of the grain supply, or praefectus urbi, Director of Public 
 Safety, and others.
3. And therefore could speak with authority on this point.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius     99

4. Perhaps a tragedy, although Seneca uses the word liber to describe it. 
  Maecenas wrote a Symposium, a work De cultu suo, Octavia, some stray 
  verse, and perhaps some history. See Seneca, Epp. xcii. and ci.
5. Seneca whimsically pretends to assume that eccentric literary style and 
  high political position go hand in hand. See also the following sentence.
6. Epicurus, Frag. 542 Usener.
7. A slave kept by every prominant Roman to identify the master’s friends 
  and dependants.
                    LETTER 20
        On Practicing What You Preach
                        A

     [If interested, a free audiobook version of this letter 
       can be found at this web address: tim.blog/20] 

If you are in good health and if you think yourself worthy of 
becoming at last your own master, I am glad. For the credit will be 
mine, if I can drag you from the floods in which you are being buf-
feted without hope of emerging. This, however, my dear Lucilius, 
I ask and beg of you, on your part, that you let wisdom sink into 
your soul, and test your progress, not by mere speech or writings, 
but by stoutness of heart and decrease of desire. Prove your words 
by your deeds.
  Far different is the purpose of those who are speech-making 
and trying to win the approbation of a throng of hearers, far 
different that of those who allure the ears of young men and idlers 
by many-sided or fluent argumentation; philosophy teaches us 
to act, not to speak; it exacts of every man that he should live 
according to his own standards, that his life should not be out of 
harmony with his words, and that, further, his inner life should 
be of one hue and not out of harmony with all his activities. This, 
I say, is the highest duty and the highest proof of wisdom—that 
deed and word should be in accord, that a man should be equal 
to himself under all conditions, and always the same.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 101

  “But,” you reply, “who can maintain this standard?” Very few, 
to be sure; but there are some. It is indeed a hard undertaking, 
and I do not say that the philosopher can always keep the same 
pace. But he can always travel the same path.
  Observe yourself, then, and see whether your dress and your 
house are inconsistent, whether you treat yourself lavishly and 
your family meanly, whether you eat frugal dinners and yet build 
luxurious houses. You should lay hold, once for all, upon a single 
norm to live by, and should regulate your whole life according to 
this norm. Some men restrict themselves at home, but strut with 
swelling port before the public; such discordance is a fault, and 
it indicates a wavering mind which cannot yet keep its balance.
  And I can tell you, further, whence arise this unsteadiness and 
disagreement of action and purpose; it is because no man resolves 
upon what he wishes, and, even if he has done so, he does not 
persist in it, but jumps the track; not only does he change, but he 
returns and slips back to the conduct which he has abandoned 
and abjured.
  Therefore, to omit the ancient definitions of wisdom and to 
include the whole manner of human life, I can be satisfied with 
the following: “What is wisdom? Always desiring the same things, 
and always refusing the same things.”[1] You may be excused from 
adding the little proviso—that what you wish, should be right; since 
no man can always be satisfied with the same thing, unless it is 
right.
  For this reason men do not know what they wish, except at 
the actual moment of wishing; no man ever decided once and for 
all to desire or to refuse. Judgment varies from day to day, and 
changes to the opposite, making many a man pass his life in a kind 
of game. Press on, therefore, as you have begun; perhaps you will 
be led to perfection, or to a point which you alone understand is 
still short of perfection.
102 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  “But what,” you say, “will become of my crowded household 
without a household income?” If you stop supporting that crowd, 
it will support itself; or perhaps you will learn by the bounty of 
poverty what you cannot learn by your own bounty. Poverty will 
keep for you your true and tried friends; you will be rid of the men 
who were not seeking you for yourself, but for something which 
you have. Is it not true, however, that you should love poverty, if 
only for this single reason—that it will show you those by whom 
you are loved? O when will that time come, when no one shall 
tell lies to compliment you!
  Accordingly, let your thoughts, your efforts, your desires, help 
to make you content with your own self and with the goods that 
spring from yourself; and commit all your other prayers to God’s 
keeping! What happiness could come closer home to you? Bring 
yourself down to humble conditions, from which you cannot be 
ejected and in order that you may do so with greater alacrity, the 
contribution contained in this letter shall refer to that subject; I 
shall bestow it upon you forthwith.
  Although you may look askance, Epicurus[2] will once again 
be glad to settle my indebtedness: “Believe me, your words 
will be more imposing if you sleep on a cot and wear rags. For 
in that case you will not be merely saying them; you will be 
demonstrating their truth.” I, at any rate, listen in a different spirit 
to the utterances of our friend Demetrius, after I have seen him 
reclining without even a cloak to cover him, and, more than this, 
without rugs to lie upon. He is not only a teacher of the truth, but 
a witness to the truth.
  “May not a man, however, despise wealth when it lies in his very 
pocket?” Of course; he also is great-souled, who sees riches heaped 
up round him and, after wondering long and deeply because they 
have come into his possession, smiles, and hears rather than feels 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 103

that they are his. It means much not to be spoiled by intimacy with 
riches; and he is truly great who is poor amidst riches.
  “Yes, but I do not know,” you say, “how the man you speak of 
will endure poverty, if he falls into it suddenly.” Nor do I, Epicurus, 
know whether the poor man you speak of will despise riches, 
should he suddenly fall into them; accordingly, in the case of both, 
it is the mind that must be appraised, and we must investigate 
whether your man is pleased with his poverty, and whether my 
man is displeased with his riches. Otherwise, the cot-bed and 
the rags are slight proof of his good intentions, if it has not been 
made clear that the person concerned endures these trials not 
from necessity but from preference.
  It is the mark, however, of a noble spirit not to precipitate one-
self into such things[3] on the ground that they are better, but 
to practice for them on the ground that they are thus easy to 
endure. And they are easy to endure, Lucilius; when, however, 
you come to them after long rehearsal, they are even pleasant; 
for they contain a sense of freedom from care—and without this 
nothing is pleasant.
  I hold it essential, therefore, to do as I have told you in a letter 
that great men have often done: to reserve a few days in which 
we may prepare ourselves for real poverty by means of fancied 
poverty. There is all the more reason for doing this, because we 
have been steeped in luxury and regard all duties as hard and 
onerous. Rather let the soul be roused from its sleep and be 
prodded, and let it be reminded that nature has prescribed very 
little for us. No man is born rich. Every man, when he first sees 
light, is commanded to be content with milk and rags. Such is our 
beginning, and yet kingdoms are all too small for us![4] Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Seneca applies to wisdom the definition of friendship, Salust,Catiline , 20. 4 
 idem velle atque idem nolle, ea demum firma amicitia est.
2. Frag. 206 Usener.
104   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

3. i.e., the life of voluntary poverty.
4. Adapted from the epigram on Alexander the Great, “hic est quem non capit 
  orbis.” See Plutarch, Alexander, § 6 ὦ παῖ ζήτει σεαυτῷ βασιλείαν ἴσην. 
  Μακεδονια γάρ σε οὐ χωρεῖ, and Seneca, Ep. cxix. 8.
                   LETTER 21
             On the Renown Which 
          My Writings Will Bring You
                       A

Do you conclude that you are having difficulties with those men 
about whom you wrote to me? Your greatest difficulty is with your-
self; for you are your own stumbling-block. You do not know what 
you want. You are better at approving the right course than at fol-
lowing it out. You see where the true happiness lies, but you have 
not the courage to attain it. Let me tell you what it is that hinders 
you, inasmuch as you do not of yourself discern it.
  You think that this condition, which you are to abandon, is one 
of importance, and after resolving upon that ideal state of calm 
into which you hope to pass, you are held back by the lustre of 
your present life, from which it is your intention to depart, just as 
if you were about to fall into a state of filth and darkness. This is 
a mistake, Lucilius; to go from your present life into the other is a 
promotion. There is the same difference between these two lives 
as there is between mere brightness and real light; the latter has 
a definite source within itself, the other borrows its radiance; the 
one is called forth by an illumination coming from the outside, and 
anyone who stands between the source and the object immediately 
turns the latter into a dense shadow; but the other has a glow that 
comes from within.
106 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  It is your own studies that will make you shine and will render 
you eminent, Allow me to mention the case of Epicurus.
  He was writing[1] to Idomeneus and trying to recall him from 
a showy existence to sure and steadfast renown. Idomeneus 
was at that time a minister of state who exercised a rigorous 
authority and had important affairs in hand. “If,” said Epicurus, 
“you are attracted by fame, my letters will make you more 
renowned than all the things which you cherish and which 
make you cherished.”
  Did Epicurus speak falsely? Who would have known of 
Idomeneus, had not the philosopher thus engraved his name 
in those letters of his? All the grandees and satraps, even the 
king himself, who was petitioned for the title which Idomeneus 
sought, are sunk in deep oblivion. Cicero’s letters keep the name 
of Atticus from perishing. It would have profited Atticus nothing 
to have an Agrippa for a son-in-law, a Tiberius for the husband 
of his grand-daughter, and a Drusus Caesar for a great-grandson; 
amid these mighty names his name would never be spoken, had 
not Cicero bound him to himself.[2]
  The deep flood of time will roll over us; some few great men 
will raise their heads above it, and, though destined at the last to 
depart into the same realms of silence, will battle against oblivion 
and maintain their ground for long.
  That which Epicurus could promise his friend, this I promise 
you, Lucilius. I shall find favour among later generations; I can 
take with me names that will endure as long as mine. Our poet 
Vergil promised an eternal name to two heroes, and is keeping 
his promise:[3]

     Blest heroes twain! If power my song possess,
     The record of your names shall never be
     Erased from out the book of Time, while yet
     Aeneas’ tribe shall keep the Capitol,
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 107

     That rock immovable, and Roman sire
     Shall empire hold.

  Whenever men have been thrust forward by fortune, whenever 
they have become part and parcel of another’s influence, they 
have found abundant favour, their houses have been thronged, 
only so long as they themselves have kept their position; when 
they themselves have left it, they have slipped at once from the 
memory of men. But in the case of innate ability, the respect in 
which it is held increases, and not only does honour accrue to 
the man himself, but whatever has attached itself to his memory 
is passed on from one to another.[4]
  In order that Idomeneus may not be introduced free of charge 
into my letter, he shall make up the indebtedness from his own 
account. It was to him that Epicurus addressed the well-known 
saying[5] urging him to make Pythocles rich, but not rich in 
the vulgar and equivocal way. “If you wish,” said he, “to make 
Pythocles rich, do not add to his store of money, but subtract 
from his desires.”
  This idea is too clear to need explanation, and too clever to need 
reinforcement. There is, however, one point on which I would 
warn you—not to consider that this statement applies only to 
riches; its value will be the same, no matter how you apply it. 
“If you wish to make Pythocles honourable, do not add to his 
honours, but subtract from his desires”; “if you wish Pythocles to 
have pleasure for ever, do not add to his pleasures, but subtract 
from his desires”; “if you wish to make Pythocles an old man, 
filling his life to the full, do not add to his years, but subtract 
from his desires.”
  There is no reason why you should hold that these words 
belong to Epicurus alone; they are public property. I think we 
ought to do in philosophy as they are wont to do in the Senate: 
when someone has made a motion, of which I approve to a certain 
108 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

extent, I ask him to make his motion in two parts, and I vote for 
the part which I approve. So I am all the more glad to repeat the 
distinguished words of Epicurus, in order that I may prove to 
those who have recourse to him through a bad motive, thinking 
that they will have in him a screen for their own vices, that they 
must live honourably, no matter what school they follow.
  Go to his Garden and read the motto carved there:
  “Stranger, here you will do well to tarry; here our highest good 
is pleasure.”
  The care-taker of that abode, a kindly host, will be ready for 
you; he will welcome you with barley-meal and serve you water 
also in abundance, with these words: “Have you not been well 
entertained?” “This garden,” he says, “does not whet your appetite; 
it quenches it. Nor does it make you more thirsty with every 
drink; it slakes the thirst by a natural cure, a cure that demands 
no fee. This is the ‘pleasure’ in which I have grown old.”
  In speaking with you, however, I refer to those desires which 
refuse alleviation, which must be bribed to cease. For in regard 
to the exceptional desires, which may be postponed, which may 
be chastened and checked, I have this one thought to share with 
you: a pleasure of that sort is according to our nature, but it is 
not according to our needs; one owes nothing to it; whatever is 
expended upon it is a free gift. The belly will not listen to advice; 
it makes demands, it importunes. And yet it is not a troublesome 
creditor; you can send it away at small cost, provided only that you 
give it what you owe, not merely all you are able to give. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Epicurus, Frag. 132 Usener.
2. i.e., Cicero’s letters did more to preserve the name of Atticus than such a 
 connexion with the imperial house would have done.
3. Aeneid, ix. 446 ff.
4. As in the case of Epicurus and Idomeneus, Cicero and Atticus, Vergil and 
 Euryalus and Nisus, and Seneca and Lucilius!
5. Frag. 135 Usener.
                   LETTER 22
    On the Futility of Half-Way Measures
                       A

You understand by this time that you must withdraw yourself 
from those showy and depraved pursuits; but you still wish to 
know how this may be accomplished. There are certain things 
which can be pointed out only by someone who is present. The 
physician cannot prescribe by letter the proper time for eating 
or bathing; he must feel the pulse. There is an old adage about 
gladiators—that they plan their fight in the ring; as they intently 
watch, something in the adversary’s glance, some movement of 
his hand, even some slight bending of his body, gives a warning.
  We can formulate general rules and commit them to writing, 
as to what is usually done, or ought to be done; such advice may 
be given, not only to our absent friends, but also to succeeding 
generations. In regard, however, to that second[1] question—when 
or how your plan is to be carried out—no one will advise at long 
range; we must take counsel in the presence of the actual situation.
  You must be not only present in the body, but watchful in 
mind, if you would avail yourself of the fleeting opportunity. 
Accordingly, look about you for the opportunity; if you see it, 
grasp it, and with all your energy and with all your strength devote 
yourself to this task—to rid yourself of those business duties.
  Now listen carefully to the opinion which I shall offer; it is 
my opinion that you should withdraw either from that kind 
110 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

of existence, or else from existence altogether. But I likewise 
maintain that you should take a gentle path, that you may loosen 
rather than cut the knot which you have bungled so badly in 
tying—provided that if there shall be no other way of loosening it, 
you may actually cut it. No man is so faint-hearted that he would 
rather hang in suspense for ever than drop once for all.
  Meanwhile—and this is of first importance—do not hamper 
yourself; be content with the business into which you have 
lowered yourself, or, as you prefer to have people think, have 
tumbled. There is no reason why you should be struggling on to 
something further; if you do, you will lose all grounds of excuse, 
and men will see that it was not a tumble. The usual explanation 
which men offer is wrong: “I was compelled to do it. Suppose 
it was against my will; I had to do it.” But no one is compelled 
to pursue prosperity at top speed; it means something to call a 
halt—even if one does not offer resistance—instead of pressing 
eagerly after favouring fortune.
  Shall you then be put out with me, if I not only come to advise 
you, but also call in others to advise you—wiser heads than my 
own, men before whom I am wont to lay any problem upon which 
l am pondering? Read the letter of Epicurus[2] which appears on 
this matter; it is addressed to Idomeneus. The writer asks him to 
hasten as fast as he can, and beat a retreat before some stronger 
influence comes between and takes from him the liberty to 
withdraw.
  But he also adds that one should attempt nothing except at 
the time when it can be attempted suitably and seasonably. Then, 
when the long-sought occasion comes, let him be up and doing. 
Epicurus forbids[3] us to doze when we are meditating escape; 
he bids us hope for a safe release from even the hardest trials, 
provided that we are not in too great a hurry before the time, nor 
too dilatory when the time arrives.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 111

  Now, I suppose, you are looking for a Stoic motto also. There is 
really no reason why anyone should slander that school to you on 
the ground of its rashness; as a matter of fact, its caution is greater 
than its courage. You are perhaps expecting the sect to utter such 
words as these: “It is base to flinch under a burden. Wrestle with 
the duties which you have once undertaken. No man is brave and 
earnest if he avoids danger, if his spirit does not grow with the 
very difficulty of his task.”
  Words like these will indeed be spoken to you, if only your 
perseverance shall have an object that is worth while, if only you 
will not have to do or to suffer anything unworthy of a good 
man; besides, a good man will not waste himself upon mean and 
discreditable work or be busy merely for the sake of being busy. 
Neither will he, as you imagine, become so involved in ambitious 
schemes that he will have continually to endure their ebb and 
flow. Nay, when he sees the dangers, uncertainties, and hazards 
in which he was formerly tossed about, he will withdraw—not 
turning his back to the foe, but falling back little by little to a safe 
position.
  From business, however, my dear Lucilius, it is easy to escape, 
if only you will despise the rewards of business. We are held back 
and kept from escaping by thoughts like these: “What then? Shall 
I leave behind me these great prospects? Shall I depart at the very 
time of harvest? Shall I have no slaves at my side? no retinue for 
my litter? no crowd in my reception room?”
  Hence men leave such advantages as these with reluctance; 
they love the reward of their hardships, but curse the hardships 
themselves.
  Men complain about their ambitions as they complain about 
their mistresses; in other words, if you penetrate their real 
feelings, you will find, not hatred, but bickering. Search the minds 
of those who cry down what they have desired, who talk about 
112 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

escaping from things which they are unable to do without; you 
will comprehend that they are lingering of their own free will in 
a situation which they declare they find it hard and wretched to 
endure.
  It is so, my dear Lucilius; there are a few men whom slavery 
holds fast, but there are many more who hold fast to slavery.
  If, however, you intend to be rid of this slavery; if freedom 
is genuinely pleasing in your eyes; and if you seek counsel 
for this one purpose—that you may have the good fortune to 
accomplish this purpose without perpetual annoyance—how can 
the whole company of Stoic thinkers fail to approve your course? 
Zeno, Chrysippus, and all their kind will give you advice that is 
temperate, honourable, and suitable.
  But if you keep turning round and looking about, in order 
to see how much you may carry away with you, and how much 
money you may keep to equip yourself for the life of leisure, you 
will never find a way out. No man can swim ashore and take his 
baggage with him. Rise to a higher life, with the favour of the 
gods; but let it not be favour of such a kind as the gods give to 
men when with kind and genial faces they bestow magnificent ills, 
justified in so doing by the one fact that the things which irritate 
and torture have been bestowed in answer to prayer.
  I was just putting the seal upon this letter; but it must be 
broken again, in order that it may go to you with its customary 
contribution, bearing with it some noble word. And lo, here is 
one that occurs to my mind; I do not know whether its truth or its 
nobility of utterance is the greater. “Spoken by whom?” you ask. 
By Epicurus;[4] for I am still appropriating other men’s belongings.
  The words are: “Everyone goes out of life just as if he had but 
lately entered it.” Take anyone off his guard, young, old, or middle-
aged; you will find that all are equally afraid of death, and equally 
ignorant of life. No one has anything finished, because we have 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 113

kept putting off into the future all our undertakings.[5] No thought 
in the quotation given above pleases me more than that it taunts 
old men with being infants.
  “No one,” he says, “leaves this world in a different manner from 
one who has just been born.” That is not true; for we are worse 
when we die than when we were born; but it is our fault, and not 
that of Nature. Nature should scold us, saying: “What does this 
mean? I brought you into the world without desires or fears, free 
from superstition, treachery and the other curses. Go forth as you 
were when you entered!”
  A man has caught the message of wisdom, if he can die as free 
from care as he was at birth; but as it is we are all a-flutter at the 
approach of the dreaded end. Our courage fails us, our cheeks 
blanch; our tears fall, though they are unavailing. But what is 
baser than to fret at the very threshold of peace?
  The reason, however is, that we are stripped of all our goods, 
we have jettisoned our cargo of life and are in distress; for no part 
of it has been packed in the hold; it has all been heaved overboard 
and has drifted away. Men do not care how nobly they live, but 
only how long, although it is within the reach of every man to live 
nobly, but within no man’s power to live long. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. The first question, “Shall I withdraw from the world?” has been answered, 
 apparently by Lucilius himself. The second was, “How can I accomplish 
 this?” Seneca pretends to answer it, although he feels that this should be 
 done in personal conference rather than by writing.
2. See the preceeding letter of Seneca.
3. Frag. 133 Usener.
4. Frag. 495 Usener.
5. i.e., the old man is like the infant in this, also—that he can look back upon 
 nothing which he has finished, because he has always put off finishing 
 things.
Japanese: Michi. In Japanese, this character can 
   also be read do (long vowel), as found in 
 bushido, aikido and judo (i.e. “The way of…”). 
    It can be read in Chinese as tao or dao, 
        as found in the Tao Te Ching.
           English: Way or path.

          Calligrapher: Noriko Lake
                   LETTER 23
            On the True Joy Which 
            Comes from Philosophy
                       A

Do you suppose that I shall write you how kindly the winter sea-
son has dealt with us—a short season and a mild one—or what a 
nasty spring we are having—cold weather out of season—and all 
the other trivialities which people write when they are at a loss for 
topics of conversation? No; I shall communicate something which 
may help both you and myself. And what shall this “something” 
be, if not an exhortation to soundness of mind? Do you ask what 
is the foundation of a sound mind? It is, not to find joy in useless 
things. I said that it was the foundation; it is really the pinnacle.
  We have reached the heights if we know what it is that we find 
joy in and if we have not placed our happiness in the control of 
externals. The man who is goaded ahead by hope of anything, 
though it be within reach, though it be easy of access, and though 
his ambitions have never played him false, is troubled and unsure 
of himself.
  Above all, my dear Lucilius, make this your business: learn 
how to feel joy.
  Do you think that I am now robbing you of many pleasures 
when I try to do away with the gifts of chance, when I counsel the 
avoidance of hope, the sweetest thing that gladdens our hearts? 
Quite the contrary; I do not wish you ever to be deprived of 
116 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

gladness. I would have it born in your house; and it is born there, 
if only it be inside of you. Other objects of cheer do not fill a man’s 
bosom; they merely smooth his brow and are inconstant—unless 
perhaps you believe that he who laughs has joy. The very soul 
must be happy and confident, lifted above every circumstance.
  Real joy, believe me, is a stern matter. Can one, do you think, 
despise death with a care-free countenance, or with a “blithe and 
gay” expression, as our young dandies are accustomed to say? 
Or can one thus open his door to poverty, or hold the curb on 
his pleasures, or contemplate the endurance of pain? He who 
ponders these things[1] in his heart is indeed full of joy; but it is 
not a cheerful joy. It is just this joy, however, of which I would 
have you become the owner; for it will never fail you when once 
you have found its source.
  The yield of poor mines is on the surface; those are really rich 
whose veins lurk deep, and they will make more bountiful returns 
to him who delves unceasingly. So too those baubles which delight 
the common crowd afford but a thin pleasure, laid on as a coating, 
and even joy that is only plated lacks a real basis. But the joy of 
which I speak, that to which I am endeavouring to lead you, is 
something solid, disclosing itself the more fully as you penetrate 
into it.
  Therefore I pray you, my dearest Lucilius, do the one thing 
that can render you really happy: cast aside and trample under 
foot all the things that glitter outwardly and are held out to you[2] 
by another or as obtainable from another; look toward the true 
good, and rejoice only in that which comes from your own store. 
And what do I mean by “from your own store”? I mean from 
your very self, that which is the best part of you. The frail body, 
also, even though we can accomplish nothing without it, is to be 
regarded as necessary rather than as important; it involves us in 
vain pleasures, short-lived, and soon to be regretted, which, unless 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 117

they are reined in by extreme self-control, will be transformed 
into the opposite. This is what I mean: pleasure, unless it has 
been kept within bounds, tends to rush headlong into the abyss 
of sorrow.
  But it is hard to keep within bounds in that which you believe 
to be good. The real good may be coveted with safety.
  Do you ask me what this real good is, and whence it derives? I 
will tell you: it comes from a good conscience, from honourable 
purposes, from right actions, from contempt of the gifts of chance, 
from an even and calm way of living which treads but one path. 
For men who leap from one purpose to another, or do not even 
leap but are carried over by a sort of hazard—how can such 
wavering and unstable persons possess any good that is fixed 
and lasting?
  There are only a few who control themselves and their affairs 
by a guiding purpose; the rest do not proceed; they are merely 
swept along, like objects afloat in a river. And of these objects, 
some are held back by sluggish waters and are transported gently; 
others are torn along by a more violent current; some, which are 
nearest the bank, are left there as the current slackens; and others 
are carried out to sea by the onrush of the stream. Therefore, we 
should decide what we wish, and abide by the decision.
  Now is the time for me to pay my debt. I can give you a saying 
of your friend Epicurus[3] and thus clear this letter of its obligation. 
“It is bothersome always to be beginning life.” Or another, which 
will perhaps express the meaning better: “They live ill who are 
always beginning to live.”
  You are right in asking why; the saying certainly stands in need 
of a commentary. It is because the life of such persons is always 
incomplete. But a man cannot stand prepared for the approach of 
death if he has just begun to live. We must make it our aim already 
118 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

to have lived long enough. No one deems that he has done so, if 
he is just on the point of planning his life.
  You need not think that there are few of this kind; practically 
everyone is of such a stamp. Some men, indeed, only begin to 
live when it is time for them to leave off living. And if this seems 
surprising to you, I shall add that which will surprise you still 
more: Some men have left off living before they have begun. 
Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Death, poverty, temptation, and suffering.
2. By the various sects which professed to teach how happiness is to be 
 obtained.
3. Frag. 493 Usener.
                   LETTER 24
             On Despising Death[1]
                       A

You write me that you are anxious about the result of a lawsuit, 
with which an angry opponent is threatening you; and you expect 
me to advise you to picture to yourself a happier issue, and to rest 
in the allurements of hope. Why, indeed, is it necessary to sum-
mon trouble—which must be endured soon enough when it has 
once arrived, or to anticipate trouble and ruin the present through 
fear of the future? It is indeed foolish to be unhappy now because 
you may be unhappy at some future time.
  But I shall conduct you to peace of mind by another route: 
if you would put off all worry, assume that what you fear may 
happen will certainly happen in any event; whatever the trouble 
may be, measure it in your own mind, and estimate the amount 
of your fear. You will thus understand that what you fear is either 
insignificant or short-lived.
  And you need not spend a long time in gathering illustrations 
which will strengthen you; every epoch has produced them. Let 
your thoughts travel into any era of Roman or foreign history, 
and there will throng before you notable examples of high 
achievement or of high endeavour.
  If you lose this case, can anything more severe happen to 
you than being sent into exile or led to prison? Is there a worse 
fate that any man may fear than being burned or being killed? 
120 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

Name such penalties one by one, and mention the men who have 
scorned them; one does not need to hunt for them—it is simply 
a matter of selection.
  Sentence of conviction was borne by Rutilius as if the injustice 
of the decision were the only thing which annoyed him. Exile 
was endured by Metellus with courage, by Rutilius even with 
gladness; for the former consented to come back only because 
his country called him; the latter refused to return when Sulla 
summoned him—and nobody in those days said “No” to Sulla! 
Socrates in prison discoursed, and declined to flee when certain 
persons gave him the opportunity; he remained there, in order 
to free mankind from the fear of two most grievous things, death 
and imprisonment.
  Mucius put his hand into the fire. It is painful to be burned; but 
how much more painful to inflict such suffering upon oneself! 
Here was a man of no learning, not primed to face death and pain 
by any words of wisdom, and equipped only with the courage of 
a soldier, who punished himself for his fruitless daring; he stood 
and watched his own right hand falling away piecemeal on the 
enemy’s brazier,[2] nor did he withdraw the dissolving limb, with 
its uncovered bones, until his foe removed the fire. He might have 
accomplished something more successful in that camp, but never 
anything more brave. See how much keener a brave man is to lay 
hold of danger than a cruel man is to inflict it: Porsenna was more 
ready to pardon Mucius for wishing to slay him than Mucius to 
pardon himself for failing to slay Porsenna!
  “Oh,” say you, “those stories have been droned to death in all 
the schools; pretty soon, when you reach the topic ‘On Despising 
Death,’ you will be telling me about Cato.” But why should I not tell 
you about Cato, how he read Plato’s[3] book on that last glorious 
night, with a sword laid at his pillow? He had provided these two 
requisites for his last moments—the first, that he might have the 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 121

will to die, and the second, that he might have the means. So he 
put his affairs in order—as well as one could put in order that 
which was ruined and near its end—and thought that he ought 
to see to it that no one should have the power to slay or the good 
fortune to save[4] Cato.
  Drawing the sword—which he had kept unstained from all 
bloodshed against the final day, he cried: “Fortune, you have 
accomplished nothing by resisting all my endeavours. I have 
fought, till now, for my country’s freedom, and not for my own, 
I did not strive so doggedly to be free, but only to live among the 
free. Now, since the affairs of mankind are beyond hope, let Cato 
be withdrawn to safety.”
  So saying, he inflicted a mortal wound upon his body. After the 
physicians had bound it up, Cato had less blood and less strength, 
but no less courage; angered now not only at Caesar but also at 
himself, he rallied his unarmed hands against his wound, and 
expelled, rather than dismissed, that noble soul which had been 
so defiant of all worldly power.
  I am not now heaping up these illustrations for the purpose of 
exercising my wit, but for the purpose of encouraging you to face 
that which is thought to be most terrible. And I shall encourage 
you all the more easily by showing that not only resolute men have 
despised that moment when the soul breathes its last, but that 
certain persons, who were craven in other respects, have equalled 
in this regard the courage of the bravest. Take, for example, Scipio, 
the father-in-law of Gnaeus Pompeius: he was driven back upon 
the African coast by a head-wind and saw his ship in the power 
of the enemy. He therefore pierced his body with a sword; and 
when they asked where the commander was, he replied: “All is 
well with the commander.”
  These words brought him up to the level of his ancestors and 
suffered not the glory which fate gave to the Scipios in Africa[5] to 
122 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

lose its continuity. It was a great deed to conquer Carthage, but a 
greater deed to conquer death. “All is well with the commander!” 
Ought a general to die otherwise, especially one of Cato’s generals?
  I shall not refer you to history, or collect examples of those 
men who throughout the ages have despised death; for they are 
very many. Consider these times of ours, whose enervation and 
over-refinement call forth our complaints; they nevertheless will 
include men of every rank, of every lot in life, and of every age, 
who have cut short their misfortunes by death.
  Believe me, Lucilius; death is so little to be feared that through 
its good offices nothing is to be feared.
  Therefore, when your enemy threatens, listen unconcernedly. 
Although your conscience makes you confident, yet, since many 
things have weight which are outside your case,[6] both hope for 
that which is utterly just, and prepare yourself against that which 
is utterly unjust. Remember, however, before all else, to strip 
things of all that disturbs and confuses, and to see what each is 
at bottom; you will then comprehend that they contain nothing 
fearful except the actual fear.
  That you see happening to boys happens also to ourselves, who 
are only slightly bigger boys: when those whom they love, with 
whom they daily associate, with whom they play, appear with 
masks on, the boys are frightened out of their wits. We should 
strip the mask, not only from men, but from things, and restore 
to each object its own aspect.
  “Why dost thou[7] hold up before my eyes swords, fires, and a 
throng of executioners raging about thee? Take away all that vain 
show, behind which thou lurkest and scarest fools! Ah! thou art 
naught but Death, whom only yesterday a manservant of mine 
and a maid-servant did despise! Why dost thou again unfold 
and spread before me, with all that great display, the whip and 
the rack? Why are those engines of torture made ready, one for 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 123

each several member of the body, and all the other innumerable 
machines for tearing a man apart piecemeal? Away with all such 
stuff, which makes us numb with terror! And thou, silence the 
groans the cries, and the bitter shrieks ground out of the victim as 
he is torn on the rack! Forsooth thou are naught but Pain, scorned 
by yonder gout-ridden wretch, endured by yonder dyspeptic in 
the midst of his dainties, borne bravely by the girl in travail. Slight 
thou art, if I can bear thee; short thou art if I cannot bear thee!”
  Ponder these words which you have often heard and often 
uttered. Moreover, prove by the result whether that which you 
have heard and uttered is true. For there is a very disgraceful 
charge often brought against our school—that we deal with the 
words, and not with the deeds, of philosophy.
  What, have you only at this moment learned that death is 
hanging over your head, at this moment exile, at this moment 
grief? You were born to these perils. Let us think of everything 
that can happen as something which will happen.
  I know that you have really done what I advise you to do; I now 
warn you not to drown your soul in these petty anxieties of yours; 
if you do, the soul will be dulled and will have too little vigour 
left when the time comes for it to arise. Remove the mind from 
this case of yours to the case of men in general. Say to yourself 
that our petty bodies are mortal and frail; pain can reach them 
from other sources than from wrong or the might of the stronger. 
Our pleasures themselves become torments; banquets bring 
indigestion, carousals paralysis of the muscles and palsy, sensual 
habits affect the feet, the hands, and every joint of the body.
  I may become a poor man; I shall then be one among many. I 
may be exiled; I shall then regard myself as born in the place to 
which I shall be sent. They may put me in chains. What then? Am 
I free from bonds now? Behold this clogging burden of a body, to 
which nature has fettered me! “I shall die,” you say; you mean to 
124 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

say “I shall cease to run the risk of sickness; I shall cease to run 
the risk of imprisonment; I shall cease to run the risk of death.”
  I am not so foolish as to go through at this juncture the 
arguments which Epicurus harps upon, and say that the terrors 
of the world below are idle—that Ixion does not whirl round on 
his wheel, that Sisyphus does not shoulder his stone uphill, that 
a man’s entrails cannot be restored and devoured every day;[8] 
no one is so childish as to fear Cerberus, or the shadows, or 
the spectral garb of those who are held together by naught but 
their unfleshed bones. Death either annihilates us or strips us 
bare. If we are then released, there remains the better part, after 
the burden has been withdrawn; if we are annihilated, nothing 
remains; good and bad are alike removed.
  Allow me at this point to quote a verse of yours, first suggesting 
that, when you wrote it, you meant it for yourself no less than 
for others. It is ignoble to say one thing and mean another; and 
how much more ignoble to write one thing and mean another! 
I remember one day you were handling the well-known 
commonplace—that we do not suddenly fall on death, but 
advance towards it by slight degrees; we die every day.
  For every day a little of our life is taken from us; even when we 
are growing, our life is on the wane. We lose our childhood, then 
our boyhood, and then our youth. Counting even yesterday, all 
past time is lost time; the very day which we are now spending 
is shared between ourselves and death. It is not the last drop that 
empties the water-clock, but all that which previously has flowed 
out; similarly, the final hour when we cease to exist does not of 
itself bring death; it merely of itself completes the death-process. 
We reach death at that moment, but we have been a long time 
on the way. 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 125

  In describing this situation, you said in your customary, style 
(for you are always impressive, but never more pungent than 
when you are putting the truth in appropriate words):

     Not single is the death which comes; the death
     Which takes us off is but the last of all.

I prefer that you should read your own words rather than my 
letter; for then it will be clear to you that this death, of which we 
are afraid, is the last but not the only death.
  I see what you are looking for; you are asking what I have packed 
into my letter, what inspiriting saying from some master-mind, 
what useful precept. So I shall send you something dealing with 
this very subject which has been under discussion. Epicurus[9] 
upbraids those who crave, as much as those who shrink from, 
death: “It is absurd,” he says, “to run towards death because you 
are tired of life, when it is your manner of life that has made you 
run towards death.”
  And in another passage:[10] “What is so absurd as to seek death, 
when it is through fear of death that you have robbed your life of 
peace?” And you may add a third statement, of the same stamp:[11] 
“Men are so thoughtless, nay, so mad, that some, through fear of 
death, force themselves to die.”
  Whichever of these ideas you ponder, you will strengthen your 
mind for the endurance alike of death and of life. For we need to 
be warned and strengthened in both directions—not to love or 
to hate life overmuch; even when reason advises us to make an 
end of it, the impulse is not to be adopted without reflection or 
at headlong speed.
  The grave and wise man should not beat a hasty retreat from 
life; he should make a becoming exit. And above all, he should 
avoid the weakness which has taken possession of so many—the 
lust for death. For just as there is an unreflecting tendency of 
126 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

the mind towards other things, so, my dear Lucilius, there is an 
unreflecting tendency towards death; this often seizes upon the 
noblest and most spirited men, as well as upon the craven and the 
abject. The former despise life; the latter find it irksome.
  Others also are moved by a satiety of doing and seeing the 
same things, and not so much by a hatred of life as because they 
are cloyed with it. We slip into this condition, while philosophy 
itself pushes us on, and we say; “How long must I endure the 
same things? Shall I continue to wake and sleep, be hungry and 
be cloyed, shiver and perspire? There is an end to nothing; all 
things are connected in a sort of circle; they flee and they are 
pursued. Night is close at the heels of day, day at the heels of night; 
summer ends in autumn, winter rushes after autumn, and winter 
softens into spring; all nature in this way passes, only to return. 
I do nothing new; I see nothing new; sooner or later one sickens 
of this, also.” There are many who think that living is not painful, 
but superfluous. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Seneca’s theme is suggested by the fear which possesses Lucilius as to 
  the issue of a lawsuit. This fear is taken as typical of all fears, and Seneca 
  devotes most of his letter to the greatest fear of all—fear of death.
  2. The foculus in this version of the story was evidently a movable fire, a 
  brazier.
  3. ThePhaedo  on the immortality of the soul.
  4. i.e., to save and bring back to Rome as prisoner.
  5. Scipio Africanus defeated Hannibal at Zama in 202 B.C. Scipio 
  Aemilianus, also surnamed Africanus, was by adoption the grandson of 
  Hannibal’s conqueror. He captured Carthage in the Third Punic War, 146 
  B.C. The Scipio mentioned by Seneca died in 46 B.C.
  6. He refers to the lawsuit, as again in § 16.
  7. An apostrophe to Death and Pain.
  8. As mythology describes the treatment of Tityus or of Prometheus.
  9. Frag. 496 Usener.
10. Frag. 498 Usener.
11. Frag. 497 Usener.
                   LETTER 25
                On Reformation
                       A

With regard to these two friends of ours, we must proceed along 
different lines; the faults of the one are to be corrected, the other’s 
are to be crushed out. I shall take every liberty; for I do not love 
this one[1] if I am unwilling to hurt his feelings. “What,” you say, 
“do you expect to keep a forty-year-old ward under your tutelage? 
Consider his age, how hardened it now is, and past handling!
  Such a man cannot be re-shaped; only young minds are 
moulded.” I do not know whether I shall make progress; but I 
should prefer to lack success rather than to lack faith. You need 
not despair of curing sick men even when the disease is chronic, if 
only you hold out against excess and force them to do and submit 
to many things against their will. As regards our other friend I 
am not sufficiently confident, either, except for the fact that he 
still has sense of shame enough to blush for his sins. This modesty 
should be fostered; so long as it endures in his soul, there is some 
room for hope. But as for this veteran of yours, I think we should 
deal more carefully with him, that he may not become desperate 
about himself.
  There is no better time to approach him than now, when he has 
an interval of rest and seems like one who has corrected his faults. 
Others have been cheated by this interval of virtue on his part, 
but he does not cheat me. I feel sure that these faults will return, 
128 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

as it were, with compound interest, for just now, I am certain, 
they are in abeyance but not absent. I shall devote some time to 
the matter, and try to see whether or not something can be done.
  But do you yourself, as indeed you are doing, show me that 
you are stout-hearted; lighten your baggage for the march. None 
of our possessions is essential. Let us return to the law of nature; 
for then riches are laid up for us. The things which we actually 
need are free for all, or else cheap; nature craves only bread and 
water. No one is poor according to this standard; when a man 
has limited his desires within these bounds, he can challenge the 
happiness of Jove himself, as Epicurus says. I must insert in this 
letter one or two more of his sayings:[2]
  “Do everything as if Epicurus were watching you.” There is no 
real doubt that it is good for one to have appointed a guardian 
over oneself, and to have someone whom you may look up to, 
someone whom you may regard as a witness of your thoughts. It 
is, indeed, nobler by far to live as you would live under the eyes 
of some good man, always at your side; but nevertheless I am 
content if you only act, in whatever you do, as you would act if 
anyone at all were looking on; because solitude prompts us to all 
kinds of evil.
  And when you have progressed so far that you have also respect 
for yourself, you may send away your attendant; but until then, 
set as a guard over yourself the authority of some man, whether 
your choice be the great Cato or Scipio, or Laelius—or any man 
in whose presence even abandoned wretches would check their 
bad impulses. Meantime, you are engaged in making of yourself 
the sort of person in whose company you would not dare to sin. 
When this aim has been accomplished and you begin to hold 
yourself in some esteem, I shall gradually allow you to do what 
Epicurus, in another passage, suggests:[3] “The time when you 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 129

should most of all withdraw into yourself is when you are forced 
to be in a crowd.”
  You ought to make yourself of a different stamp from the 
multitude. Therefore, while it is not yet safe to withdraw into 
solitude,[4] seek out certain individuals; for everyone is better off 
in the company of somebody or other—no matter who—than in 
his own company alone. “The time when you should most of all 
withdraw into yourself is when you are forced to be in a crowd.” 
Yes, provided that you are a good, tranquil, and self-restrained 
man; otherwise, you had better withdraw into a crowd in order 
to get away from your self. Alone, you are too close to a rascal. 
Farewell.

Footnotes
1. The second friend, whose faults are to be crushed out. He proves to be 
 some forty years old; the other is a youth.
2. Frag. 211 Usener.
3. Frag. 209 Usener.
4. Because “solitude promts to evil,” § 5.
                    LETTER 26
             On Old Age and Death
                        A

I was just lately telling you that I was within sight of old age.[1] 
I am now afraid that I have left old age behind me. For some 
other word would now apply to my years, or at any rate to my 
body; since old age means a time of life that is weary rather than 
crushed. You may rate me in the worn-out class—of those who 
are nearing the end.
  Nevertheless, I offer thanks to myself, with you as witness; for 
I feel that age has done no damage to my mind, though I feel its 
effects on my constitution. Only my vices, and the outward aids to 
these vices, have reached senility; my mind is strong and rejoices 
that it has but slight connexion with the body. It has laid aside 
the greater part of its load. It is alert; it takes issue with me on 
the subject of old age; it declares that old age is its time of bloom.
  Let me take it at its word, and let it make the most of the 
advantages it possesses. The mind bids me do some thinking 
and consider how much of this peace of spirit and moderation 
of character I owe to wisdom and how much to my time of life; 
it bids me distinguish carefully what I cannot do and what I do 
not want to do. . . .[2] For why should one complain or regard it 
as a disadvantage, if powers which ought to come to an end have 
failed?
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 131

  “But,” you say, “it is the greatest possible disadvantage to be 
worn out and to die off, or rather, if I may speak literally, to melt 
away! For we are not suddenly smitten and laid low; we are worn 
away, and every day reduces our powers to a certain extent.”
  But is there any better end to it all than to glide off to one’s 
proper haven, when nature slips the cable? Not that there is 
anything painful in a shock and a sudden departure from 
existence; it is merely because this other way of departure is 
easy—a gradual withdrawal. I, at any rate, as if the test were at 
hand and the day were come which is to pronounce its decision 
concerning all the years of my life, watch over myself and 
commune thus with myself:
  “The showing which we have made up to the present time, 
in word or deed, counts for nothing. All this is but a trifling 
and deceitful pledge of our spirit, and is wrapped in much 
charlatanism. I shall leave it to Death to determine what progress 
I have made. Therefore with no faint heart I am making ready for 
the day when, putting aside all stage artifice and actor’s rouge, 
I am to pass judgment upon myself—whether I am merely 
declaiming brave sentiments, or whether I really feel them; 
whether all the bold threats I have uttered against fortune are a 
pretence and a farce.
  Put aside the opinion of the world; it is always wavering 
and always takes both sides. Put aside the studies which you 
have pursued throughout your life; Death will deliver the final 
judgment in your case. This is what I mean: your debates and 
learned talks, your maxims gathered from the teachings of the 
wise, your cultured conversation—all these afford no proof of the 
real strength of your soul. Even the most timid man can deliver a 
bold speech. What you have done in the past will be manifest only 
at the time when you draw your last breath. I accept the terms; I 
do not shrink from the decision.”
132 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  This is what I say to myself, but I would have you think that 
I have said it to you also. You are younger; but what does that 
matter? There is no fixed count of our years. You do not know 
where death awaits you; so be ready for it everywhere.
  I was just intending to stop, and my hand was making ready for 
the closing sentence; but the rites are still to be performed and the 
travelling money for the letter disbursed. And just assume that I 
am not telling where I intend to borrow the necessary sum; you 
know upon whose coffers I depend. Wait for me but a moment, 
and I will pay you from my own account;[3] meanwhile, Epicurus 
will oblige me with these words:[4] “Think on death,” or rather, if 
you prefer the phrase, on “migration to heaven.”
  The meaning is clear—that it is a wonderful thing to learn 
thoroughly how to die. You may deem it superfluous to learn a 
text that can be used only once; but that is just the reason why we 
ought to think on a thing. When we can never prove whether we 
really know a thing, we must always be learning it.
  “Think on death.” In saying this, he bids us think on freedom. 
He who has learned to die has unlearned slavery; he is above any 
external power, or, at any rate, he is beyond it. What terrors have 
prisons and bonds and bars for him? His way out is clear. There 
is only one chain which binds us to life, and that is the love of 
life. The chain may not be cast off, but it may be rubbed away, so 
that, when necessity shall demand, nothing may retard or hinder 
us from being ready to do at once that which at some time we are 
bound to do. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. See the twelfth letter. Seneca was by this time at least sixty-five years old, 
 and probably older.
2. This passage is hopelessly corrupt. The course of the argument requires 
 something like this: For it is just as much to my advantage not to be able 
 to do what I do not want to do, as it is to be able to do whatever gives me 
 pleasure.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    133

3. i.e., the money will be brought from home—the saying will be one of 
  Seneca’s own.
4. Epicurus, Frag. 205 Usener.
                    LETTER 27
          On the Good Which Abides
                        A

“What,” say you, “are you giving me advice? Indeed, have you 
already advised yourself, already corrected your own faults? Is this 
the reason why you have leisure to reform other men?” No, I am 
not so shameless as to undertake to cure my fellow-men when I 
am ill myself. I am, however, discussing with you troubles which 
concern us both, and sharing the remedy with you, just as if we 
were lying ill in the same hospital. Listen to me, therefore, as you 
would if I were talking to myself. I am admitting you to my inmost 
thoughts, and am having it out with myself, merely making use 
of you as my pretext.
  I keep crying out to myself: “Count your years, and you will 
be ashamed to desire and pursue the same things you desired 
in your boyhood days. Of this one thing make sure against 
your dying day—let your faults die before you die. Away with 
those disordered pleasures, which must be dearly paid for; it is 
not only those which are to come that harm me, but also those 
which have come and gone. Just as crimes, even if they have not 
been detected when they were committed, do not allow anxiety 
to end with them; so with guilty pleasures, regret remains even 
after the pleasures are over. They are not substantial, they are not 
trustworthy; even if they do not harm us, they are fleeting.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 135

  Cast about rather for some good which will abide. But there can 
be no such good except as the soul discovers it for itself within 
itself. Virtue alone affords everlasting and peace-giving joy; even 
if some obstacle arise, it is but like an intervening cloud, which 
floats beneath the sun but never prevails against it.”
  When will it be your lot to attain this joy? Thus far, you have 
indeed not been sluggish, but you must quicken your pace. Much 
toil remains; to confront it, you must yourself lavish all your 
waking hours, and all your efforts, if you wish the result to be 
accomplished. This matter cannot be delegated to someone else.
  The other kind of literary activity[1] admits of outside assistance. 
Within our own time there was a certain rich man named 
Calvisius Sabinus; he had the bank-account and the brains of a 
freedman.[2] I never saw a man whose good fortune was a greater 
offence against propriety. His memory was so faulty that he would 
sometimes forget the name of Ulysses, or Achilles, or Priam—
names which we know as well as we know those of our own 
attendants. No major-domo in his dotage, who cannot give men 
their right names, but is compelled to invent names for them—no 
such man, I say, calls off the names[3] of his master’s tribesmen 
so atrociously as Sabinus used to call off the Trojan and Achaean 
heroes. But none the less did he desire to appear learned.
  So he devised this short cut to learning: he paid fabulous prices 
for slaves—one to know Homer by heart and another to know 
Hesiod; he also delegated a special slave to each of the nine lyric 
poets. You need not wonder that he paid high prices for these 
slaves; if he did not find them ready to hand he had them made to 
order. After collecting this retinue, he began to make life miserable 
for his guests; he would keep these fellows at the foot of his couch, 
and ask them from time to time for verses which he might repeat, 
and then frequently break down in the middle of a word.
136 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  Satellius Quadratus, a feeder, and consequently a fawner, upon 
addle-pated millionaires, and also (for this quality goes with the 
other two) a flouter of them, suggested to Sabinus that he should 
have philologists to gather up the bits.[4] Sabinus remarked that 
each slave cost him one hundred thousand sesterces; Satellius 
replied: “You might have bought as many book-cases for a smaller 
sum.” But Sabinus held to the opinion that what any member of 
his household knew, he himself knew also.
  This same Satellius began to advise Sabinus to take wrestling 
lessons—sickly, pale, and thin as he was, Sabinus answered: “How 
can I? I can scarcely stay alive now.” “Don’t say that, I implore you,” 
replied the other, “consider how many perfectly healthy slaves you 
have!” No man is able to borrow or buy a sound mind; in fact, 
as it seems to me, even though sound minds were for sale, they 
would not find buyers. Depraved minds, however, are bought 
and sold every day.
  But let me pay off my debt and say farewell: “Real wealth is 
poverty adjusted to the law of Nature.”[5] Epicurus has this saying 
in various ways and contexts; but it can never be repeated too 
often, since it can never be learned too well. For some persons 
the remedy should be merely prescribed; in the case of others, it 
should be forced down their throats. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., ordinary studies, or literature, as contrasted with philosophy.
2. Compare with the following the vulgarities of Trimalchio in the Satire of 
 Petronius, and the bad taste of Nasidienus in Horace (Sat. ii. 8).
3. At the salutatio, or morning call. The position of nomenclator, “caller-of-
 names,” was originally devoted more strictly to political purposes. Here it is 
 primarily social.
4. i.e., all the ideas that dropped out of the head of Sabinus. The slave who 
 picked up the crumbs was called analecta.
5. Epicurus, Frag. 477 Usener.
                   LETTER 28
      On Travel as a Cure for Discontent
                       A

Do you suppose that you alone have had this experience? Are 
you surprised, as if it were a novelty, that after such long travel 
and so many changes of scene you have not been able to shake 
off the gloom and heaviness of your mind? You need a change of 
soul rather than a change of climate.[1] Though you may cross vast 
spaces of sea, and though, as our Vergil[2] remarks,

     Lands and cities are left astern,

your faults will follow you whithersoever you travel.
  Socrates made the same remark to one who complained; he 
said: “Why do you wonder that globe-trotting does not help you, 
seeing that you always take yourself with you? The reason which 
set you wandering is ever at your heels.” What pleasure is there 
in seeing new lands? Or in surveying cities and spots of interest? 
All your bustle is useless. Do you ask why such flight does not 
help you? It is because you flee along with yourself. You must lay 
aside the burdens of the mind; until you do this, no place will 
satisfy you.
  Reflect that your present behaviour is like that of the prophetess 
whom Vergil describes:[3] she is excited and goaded into fury, and 
contains within herself much inspiration that is not her own: 
138 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

     The priestess raves, if haply she may shake
     The great god from her heart.

  You wander hither and yon, to rid yourself of the burden that 
rests upon you, though it becomes more troublesome by reason of 
your very restlessness, just as in a ship the cargo when stationary 
makes no trouble, but when it shifts to this side or that, it causes 
the vessel to heel more quickly in the direction where it has 
settled. Anything you do tells against you, and you hurt yourself 
by your very unrest; for you are shaking up a sick man.
  That trouble once removed, all change of scene will become 
pleasant; though you may be driven to the uttermost ends of the 
earth, in whatever corner of a savage land you may find yourself, 
that place, however forbidding, will be to you a hospitable abode. 
The person you are matters more than the place to which you go; 
for that reason we should not make the mind a bondsman to any 
one place. Live in this belief: “I am not born for any one corner 
of the universe; this whole world is my country.”
  If you saw this fact clearly, you would not be surprised at getting 
no benefit from the fresh scenes to which you roam each time 
through weariness of the old scenes. For the first would have 
pleased you in each case, had you believed it wholly yours.[4] As 
it is, however, you are not journeying; you are drifting and being 
driven, only exchanging one place for another, although that 
which you seek—to live well—is found everywhere.[5]
  Can there be any spot so full of confusion as the Forum? Yet 
you can live quietly even there, if necessary. Of course, if one 
were allowed to make one’s own arrangements, I should flee far 
from the very sight and neighbourhood of the Forum. For just as 
pestilential places assail even the strongest constitution, so there 
are some places which are also unwholesome for a healthy mind 
which is not yet quite sound, though recovering from its ailment.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 139

  I disagree with those who strike out into the midst of the bil-
lows and, welcoming a stormy existence, wrestle daily in hardi-
hood of soul with life’s problems. The wise man will endure all 
that, but will not choose it; he will prefer to be at peace rather 
than at war. It helps little to have cast out your own faults if you 
must quarrel with those of others.
  Says one: “There were thirty tyrants surrounding Socrates, and 
yet they could not break his spirit”; but what does it matter how 
many masters a man has? “Slavery” has no plural; and he who 
has scorned it is free—no matter amid how large a mob of over-
lords he stands.
  It is time to stop, but not before I have paid duty. “The 
knowledge of sin is the beginning of salvation.” This saying of 
Epicurus[6] seems to me to be a noble one. For he who does not 
know that he has sinned does not desire correction; you must 
discover yourself in the wrong before you can reform yourself.
  Some boast of their faults. Do you think that the man has any 
thought of mending his ways who counts over his vices as if they 
were virtues? Therefore, as far as possible, prove yourself guilty, 
hunt up charges against yourself; play the part, first of accuser, 
then of judge, last of intercessor. At times be harsh with yourself.
[7] Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Cf. Horace, Ep. i. 11, 27 caelum non animum mutant qui trans 
 mare currunt.
2. Aeneid, iii. 72.
3. Aeneid, vi. 78 f.
4. i.e., had you been able to say patria mea totus mundus est.
5. Cf. Horace, Ep. i. 11, 28—navibus atque Quadrigis petimus bene vivere; 
 quod petis, hic est.
6. Frag. 522 Usener.
7. i.e., refuse your own intercession.
                    LETTER 29
   On the Critical Condition of Marcellinus
                        A

You have been inquiring about our friend Marcellinus and you 
desire to know how he is getting along. He seldom comes to see 
me, for no other reason than that he is afraid to hear the truth, 
and at present he is removed from my danger of hearing it; for one 
must not talk to a man unless he is willing to listen. That is why 
it is often doubted whether Diogenes and the other Cynics, who 
employed an undiscriminating freedom of speech and offered 
advice to any who came in their way, ought to have pursued such 
a plan.
  For what if one should chide the deaf or those who are 
speechless from birth or by illness? But you answer: “Why should 
I spare words? They cost nothing. I cannot know whether I shall 
help the man to whom I give advice; but I know well that I shall 
help someone if I advise many. I must scatter this advice by the 
handful.[1] It is impossible that one who tries often should not 
sometime succeed.”
  This very thing, my dear Lucilius, is, I believe, exactly what a 
great-souled man ought not to do; his influence is weakened; it 
has too little effect upon those whom it might have set right if 
it had not grown so stale. The archer ought not to hit the mark 
only sometimes; he ought to miss it only sometimes. That which 
takes effect by chance is not an art. Now wisdom is an art; it 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 141

should have a definite aim, choosing only those who will make 
progress, but withdrawing from those whom it has come to regard 
as hopeless—yet not abandoning them too soon, and just when 
the case is becoming hopeless trying drastic remedies.
  As to our friend Marcellinus, I have not yet lost hope. He can 
still be saved, but the helping hand must be offered soon. There 
is indeed danger that he may pull his helper down; for there is 
in him a native character of great vigour, though it is already 
inclining to wickedness. Nevertheless I shall brave this danger 
and be bold enough to show him his faults.
  He will act in his usual way; he will have recourse to his wit—
the wit that can call forth smiles even from mourners. He will 
turn the jest, first against himself, and then against me. He will 
forestall every word which I am about to utter. He will quiz our 
philosophic systems; he will accuse philosophers of accepting 
doles, keeping mistresses, and indulging their appetites. He will 
point out to me one philosopher who has been caught in adultery, 
another who haunts the cafes, and another who appears at court.
  He will bring to my notice Aristo, the philosopher of Marcus 
Lepidus, who used to hold discussions in his carriage; for that 
was the time which he had taken for editing his researches, so 
that Scaurus said of him when asked to what school he belonged: 
“At any rate, he isn’t one of the Walking Philosophers.” Julius 
Graecinus, too, a man of distinction, when asked for an opinion 
on the same point, replied: “I cannot tell you; for I don’t know 
what he does when dismounted,” as if the query referred to a 
chariot-gladiator.[2]
  It is mountebanks of that sort, for whom it would be more 
creditable to have left philosophy alone than to traffic in her, 
whom Marcellinus will throw in my teeth. But I have decided to 
put up with taunts; he may stir my laughter, but I perchance shall 
stir him to tears; or, if he persist in his jokes, I shall rejoice, so to 
142 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

speak, in the midst of sorrow, because he is blessed with such a 
merry sort of lunacy. But that kind of merriment does not last 
long. Observe such men, and you will note that within a short 
space of time they laugh to excess and rage to excess.
  It is my plan to approach him and to show him how much 
greater was his worth when many thought it less. Even though I 
shall not root out his faults, I shall put a check upon them; they 
will not cease, but they will stop for a time; and perhaps they will 
even cease, if they get the habit of stopping. This is a thing not to 
be despised, since to men who are seriously stricken the blessing 
of relief is a substitute for health.
  So while I prepare myself to deal with Marcellinus, do you in 
the meantime, who are able, and who understand whence and 
whither you have made your way, and who for that reason have 
an inkling of the distance yet to go, regulate your character, rouse 
your courage, and stand firm in the face of things which have 
terrified you. Do not count the number of those who inspire 
fear in you. Would you not regard as foolish one who was afraid 
of a multitude in a place where only one at a time could pass? 
Just so, there are not many who have access to you to slay you, 
though there are many who threaten you with death. Nature has 
so ordered it that, as only one has given you life, so only one will 
take it away.
  If you had any shame, you would have let me off from paying 
the last instalment. Still, I shall not be niggardly either, but shall 
discharge my debts to the last penny and force upon you what 
I still owe: “I have never wished to cater to the crowd; for what 
I know, they do not approve, and what they approve, I do not 
k n ow.” [3]
  “Who said this?” you ask, as if you were ignorant whom I am 
pressing into service; it is Epicurus. But this same watchword 
rings in your ears from every sect—Peripatetic, Academic, Stoic, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 143

Cynic. For who that is pleased by virtue can please the crowd? 
It takes trickery to win popular approval; and you must needs 
make yourself like unto them; they will withhold their approval 
if they do not recognise you as one of themselves. However, what 
you think of yourself is much more to the point than what oth-
ers think of you. The favour of ignoble men can be won only by 
ignoble means.
  What benefit, then, will that vaunted philosophy confer, whose 
praises we sing, and which, we are told, is to be preferred to every 
art and every possession? Assuredly, it will make you prefer to 
please yourself rather than the populace, it will make you weigh, 
and not merely count, men’s judgments, it will make you live 
without fear of gods or men, it will make you either overcome 
evils or end them. Otherwise, if I see you applauded by popular 
acclamation, if your entrance upon the scene is greeted by a 
roar of cheering and clapping, marks of distinction meet only 
for actors—if the whole state, even the women and children, 
sing your praises, how can I help pitying you? For I know what 
pathway leads to such popularity. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. The usual expression isplena  manu spargere, “with full hand,” cf. Ep. cxx. 
 10. In the famous saying of Corinna to Pindar: “Sow with the hand and not 
 with the sack,” the idea is “sparingly,” and not, as here, “bountifully.”
2. The essedarius fought from a car. When his adversary forced him out of 
 the car, he was compelled to continue the fight on foot, like an unhorsed 
 knight.
3. Epicurus, Frag. 187 Usener.

                   LETTER 30
        On Conquering the Conqueror
                       A

I have beheld Aufidius Bassus, that noble man, shattered in health 
and wrestling with his years. But they already bear upon him so 
heavily that he cannot be raised up; old age has settled down upon 
him with great—yes, with its entire, weight. You know that his 
body was always delicate and sapless. For a long time he has kept 
it in hand, or, to speak more correctly, has kept it together; of a 
sudden it has collapsed.
  Just as in a ship that springs a leak, you can always stop the first 
or the second fissure, but when many holes begin to open and let 
in water, the gaping hull cannot be saved; similarly, in an old man’s 
body, there is a certain limit up to which you can sustain and prop 
its weakness. But when it comes to resemble a decrepit building, 
when every joint begins to spread and while one is being repaired 
another falls apart—then it is time for a man to look about him 
and consider how he may get out.[1]
  But the mind of our friend Bassus is active. Philosophy bestows 
this boon upon us; it makes us joyful in the very sight of death, 
strong and brave no matter in what state the body may be, cheerful 
and never failing though the body fail us. A great pilot can sail even 
when his canvas is rent; if his ship be dismantled, he can yet put 

Artwork opposite by Nimit Malavia
146 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

in trim what remains of her hull and hold her to her course. This 
is what our friend Bassus is doing; and he contemplates his own 
end with the courage and countenance which you would regard 
as undue indifference in a man who so contemplated another’s.
  This is a great accomplishment, Lucilius, and one which needs 
long practice to learn—to depart calmly when the inevitable hour 
arrives. Other kinds of death contain an ingredient of hope: a 
disease comes to an end; a fire is quenched; falling houses have 
set down in safety those whom they seemed certain to crush; the 
sea has cast ashore unharmed those whom it had engulfed, by 
the same force through which it drew them down; the soldier 
has drawn back his sword from the very neck of his doomed foe. 
But those whom old age is leading away to death have nothing to 
hope for; old age alone grants no reprieve. No ending, to be sure, 
is more painless; but there is none more lingering.
  Our friend Bassus seemed to me to be attending his own funeral, 
and laying out his own body for burial, and living almost as if he 
had survived his own death, and bearing with wise resignation his 
grief at his own departure. For he talks freely about death, trying 
hard to persuade us that if this process contains any element of 
discomfort or of fear, it is the fault of the dying person, and not 
of death itself; also, that there is no more inconvenience at the 
actual moment than there is after it is over.
  “And it is just as insane,” he adds, “for a man to fear what will not 
happen to him, as to fear what he will not feel if it does happen.” 
Or does anyone imagine it to be possible that the agency by which 
feeling is removed can be itself felt? “Therefore,” says Bassus, “death 
stands so far beyond all evil that it is beyond all fear of evils.”
  I know that all this has often been said and should be often 
repeated; but neither when I read them were such precepts so 
effective with me, nor when I heard them from the lips of those 
who were at a safe distance from the fear of the things which they 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 147

declared were not to be feared. But this old man had the greatest 
weight with me when he discussed death and death was near.
  For I must tell you what I myself think: I hold that one is braver 
at the very moment of death than when one is approaching death. 
For death, when it stands near us, gives even to inexperienced men 
the courage not to seek to avoid the inevitable. So the gladiator, 
who throughout the fight has been no matter how faint-hearted, 
offers his throat to his opponent and directs the wavering blade 
to the vital spot.[2] But an end that is near at hand, and is bound 
to come, calls for tenacious courage of soul; this is a rarer thing, 
and none but the wise man can manifest it.
  Accordingly, I listened to Bassus with the deepest pleasure; he 
was casting his vote concerning death and pointing out what sort 
of a thing it is when it is observed, so to speak, nearer at hand. I 
suppose that a man would have your confidence in a larger degree, 
and would have more weight with you, if he had come back to life 
and should declare from experience that there is no evil in death; 
and so, regarding the approach of death, those will tell you best 
what disquiet it brings who have stood in its path, who have seen 
it coming and have welcomed it. 
  Bassus may be included among these men; and he had no wish 
to deceive us. He says that it is as foolish to fear death as to fear old 
age; for death follows old age precisely as old age follows youth. 
He who does not wish to die cannot have wished to live. For life is 
granted to us with the reservation that we shall die; to this end our 
path leads. Therefore, how foolish it is to fear it, since men simply 
await that which is sure, but fear only that which is uncertain!
  Death has its fixed rule—equitable and unavoidable. Who can 
complain when he is governed by terms which include everyone? 
The chief part of equity, however, is equality.
  But it is superfluous at the present time to plead Nature’s cause; 
for she wishes our laws to be identical with her own; she but 
148 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

resolves that which she has compounded, and compounds again 
that which she has resolved.
  Moreover, if it falls to the lot of any man to be set gently adrift 
by old age—not suddenly torn from life, but withdrawn bit by bit, 
oh, verily he should thank the gods, one and all, because, after 
he has had his fill, he is removed to a rest which is ordained for 
mankind, a rest that is welcome to the weary. You may observe 
certain men who crave death even more earnestly than others 
are wont to beg for life. And I do not know which men give us 
greater courage—those who call for death, or those who meet 
it cheerfully and tranquilly—for the first attitude is sometimes 
inspired by madness and sudden anger, the second is the calm 
which results from fixed judgment. Before now men have gone 
to meet death in a fit of rage; but when death comes to meet him, 
no one welcomes it cheerfully, except the man who has long since 
composed himself for death.
  I admit, therefore, that I have visited this dear friend of mine 
more frequently on many pretexts, but with the purpose of 
learning whether I should find him always the same, and whether 
his mental strength was perhaps waning in company with his 
bodily powers. But it was on the increase, just as the joy of the 
charioteer is wont to show itself more clearly when he is on the 
seventh round[3] of the course, and nears the prize.
  Indeed, he often said, in accord with the counsels of Epicurus:[4] 
“I hope, first of all, that there is no pain at the moment when a 
man breathes his last; but if there is, one will find an element 
of comfort in its very shortness. For no great pain lasts long. 
And at all events, a man will find relief at the very time when 
soul and body are being torn asunder, even though the process 
be accompanied by excruciating pain, in the thought that after 
this pain is over he can feel no more pain. I am sure, however, 
that an old man’s soul is on his very lips, and that only a little 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 149

force is necessary to disengage it from the body. A fire which has 
seized upon a substance that sustains it needs water to quench it, 
or, sometimes, the destruction of the building itself; but the fire 
which lacks sustaining fuel dies away of its own accord.”
  I am glad to hear such words, my dear Lucilius, not as new to 
me, but as leading me into the presence of an actual fact. And 
what then? Have I not seen many men break the thread of life? I 
have indeed seen such men; but those have more weight with me 
who approach death without any loathing for life, letting death 
in, so to speak, and not pulling it towards them.
  Bassus kept saying: “It is due to our own fault that we feel this 
torture, because we shrink from dying only when we believe that 
our end is near at hand.” But who is not near death? It is ready 
for us in all places and at all times. “Let us consider,” he went on 
to say, “when some agency of death seems imminent, how much 
nearer are other varieties of dying which are not feared by us.”
  A man is threatened with death by an enemy, but this form 
of death is anticipated by an attack of indigestion. And if we are 
willing to examine critically the various causes of our fear, we shall 
find that some exist, and others only seem to be. We do not fear 
death; we fear the thought of death. For death itself is always the 
same distance from us; wherefore, if it is to be feared at all, it is to 
be feared always. For what season of our life is exempt from death?
  But what I really ought to fear is that you will hate this long 
letter worse than death itself; so I shall stop. Do you, however, 
always think on death in order that you may never fear it. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., exeas e vita, “depart from life.”
2. The defeated gladiator is supposed to be on his back, his opponent standing 
 over him and about to deliver the final blow. As the blade wavers at the 
 throat, searching for the jugular vein, the victim directs the point.
3. i.e., when on the home stretch.
4. Frag. 503 Usener.
                    LETTER 31
                 On Siren Songs
                        A

Now I recognize my Lucilius! He is beginning to reveal the char-
acter of which he gave promise. Follow up the impulse which 
prompted you to make for all that is best, treading under your feet 
that which is approved by the crowd. I would not have you greater 
or better than you planned; for in your case the mere foundations 
have covered a large extent of ground; only finish all that you have 
laid out, and take in hand the plans which you have had in mind.
  In short, you will be a wise man, if you stop up your ears; nor 
is it enough to close them with wax; you need a denser stopple 
than that which they say Ulysses used for his comrades. The song 
which he feared was alluring, but came not from every side; the 
song, however, which you have to fear, echoes round you not 
from a single headland, but from every quarter of the world. Sail, 
therefore, not past one region which you mistrust because of its 
treacherous delights, but past every city. Be deaf to those who love 
you most of all; they pray for bad things with good intentions. 
And, if you would be happy, entreat the gods that none of their 
fond desires for you may be brought to pass.
  What they wish to have heaped upon you are not really good 
things; there is only one good, the cause and the support of a 
happy life—trust in oneself. But this cannot be attained, unless 
one has learned to despise toil and to reckon it among the things 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 151

which are neither good nor bad. For it is not possible that a single 
thing should be bad at one time and good at another, at times light 
and to be endured, and at times a cause of dread.
  Work is not a good.[1] Then what is a good? I say, the scorning 
of work. That is why I should rebuke men who toil to no purpose. 
But when, on the other hand, a man is struggling towards 
honourable things, in proportion as he applies himself more and 
more, and allows himself less and less to be beaten or to halt,[2] 
I shall recommend his conduct and shout my encouragement, 
saying: “By so much you are better! Rise, draw a fresh breath, and 
surmount that hill, if possible, at a single spurt!”
  Work is the sustenance of noble minds. There is, then, no 
reason why, in accordance with that old vow of your parents, 
you should pick and choose what fortune you wish should fall to 
your lot, or what you should pray for; besides, it is base for a man 
who has already travelled the whole round of highest honours to 
be still importuning the gods. What need is there of vows? Make 
yourself happy through your own efforts; you can do this, if once 
you comprehend that whatever is blended with virtue is good, 
and that whatever is joined to vice is bad. Just as nothing gleams 
if it has no light blended with it, and nothing is black unless it 
contains darkness or draws to itself something of dimness, and as 
nothing is hot without the aid of fire, and nothing cold without 
air; so it is the association of virtue and vice that makes things 
honourable or base.
  What then is good? The knowledge of things. What is evil? 
The lack of knowledge of things. Your wise man, who is also a 
craftsman, will reject or choose in each case as it suits the occasion; 
but he does not fear that which he rejects, nor does he admire 
that which he chooses, if only he has a stout and unconquerable 
soul. I forbid you to be cast down or depressed. It is not enough 
if you do not shrink from work; ask for it.
152 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  “But,” you say, “is not trifling and superfluous work, and work 
that has been inspired by ignoble causes, a bad sort of work?” No; 
no more than that which is expended upon noble endeavours, 
since the very quality that endures toil and rouses itself to hard 
and uphill effort, is of the spirit, which says: “Why do you grow 
slack? It is not the part of a man to fear sweat.”
  And besides this, in order that virtue may be perfect, there 
should be an even temperament and a scheme of life that is 
consistent with itself throughout; and this result cannot be 
attained without knowledge of things, and without the art[3] which 
enables us to understand things human and things divine. That 
is the greatest good. If you seize this good, you begin to be the 
associate of the gods, and not their suppliant.
  “But how,” you ask, “does one attain that goal?” You do not need 
to cross the Pennine or Graian[4] hills, or traverse the Candavian[5] 
waste, or face the Syrtes,[6] or Scylla, or Charybdis, although you 
have travelled through all these places for the bribe of a petty 
governorship; the journey for which nature has equipped you is 
safe and pleasant. She has given you such gifts that you may, if 
you do not prove false to them, rise level with God.
  Your money, however, will not place you on a level with God; 
for God has no property. Your bordered robe[7] will not do this; for 
God is not clad in raiment; nor will your reputation, nor a display 
of self, nor a knowledge of your name wide-spread throughout 
the world; for no one has knowledge of God; many even hold 
him in low esteem, and do not suffer for so doing. The throng of 
slaves which carries your litter along the city streets and in foreign 
places will not help you; for this God of whom I speak, though 
the highest and most powerful of beings, carries all things on his 
own shoulders. Neither can beauty or strength make you blessed, 
for none of these qualities can withstand old age.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 153

  What we have to seek for, then, is that which does not each 
day pass more and more under the control of some power which 
cannot be withstood.[8] And what is this? It is the soul—but the 
soul that is upright, good, and great. What else could you call such 
a soul than a god dwelling as a guest in a human body? A soul 
like this may descend into a Roman knight just as well as into a 
freedman’s son or a slave. For what is a Roman knight, or a freed-
men’s son, or a slave? They are mere titles, born of ambition or of 
wrong. One may leap to heaven from the very slums. Only rise

     And mould thyself to kinship with thy God.[9]

This moulding will not be done in gold or silver; an image that is 
to be in the likeness of God cannot be fashioned of such materials; 
remember that the gods, when they were kind unto men,[10] were 
moulded in clay. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. The argument is that work is not, in itself, a good; if it were, it would 
  not be praiseworthy at one time and to be deprecated at another. It 
  belongs, therefore, to the class of things which the Stoics call ἀδιάφορα, 
  indifferentia, res mediae; cf. Cicero, de Fin. iii. 16.
  2. Literally, “come to the end of his furrow.”
  3. i.e., philosophy.
  4. The Great St. Bernard and Little St. Bernard routes over the Alps.
  5. A mountain in Illyria, over which the Via Egnatia ran.
  6. Dangerous quick-sands along the north coast of Africa.
  7. Thetoga  praetexta, badge of the official position of Lucilius.
  8. For example, Time or Chance.
  9. Vergil, Aeneid, viii. 364 f.
10. In the Golden Age, described in Ep. xc., when men were nearest to nature 
  and “fresh from the gods.”
                    LETTER 32
                   On Progress
                        A

I have been asking about you, and inquiring of everyone who 
comes from your part of the country, what you are doing, and 
where you are spending your time, and with whom. You cannot 
deceive me; for I am with you. Live just as if I were sure to get 
news of your doings, nay, as if I were sure to behold them. And if 
you wonder what particularly pleases me that I hear concerning 
you, it is that I hear nothing, that most of those whom I ask do 
not know what you are doing.
  This is sound practice—to refrain from associating with men of 
different stamp and different aims. And I am indeed confident that 
you cannot be warped, that you will stick to your purpose, even 
though the crowd may surround and seek to distract you. What, 
then, is on my mind? I am not afraid lest they work a change in 
you; but I am afraid lest they may hinder your progress. And much 
harm is done even by one who holds you back, especially since 
life is so short; and we make it still shorter by our unsteadiness, 
by making ever fresh beginnings at life, now one and immediately 
another. We break up life into little bits, and fritter it away.
  Hasten ahead, then, dearest Lucilius, and reflect how greatly 
you would quicken your speed if an enemy were at your back, or 
if you suspected the cavalry were approaching and pressing hard 
upon your steps as you fled. It is true; the enemy is indeed pressing 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 155

upon you; you should therefore increase your speed and escape 
away and reach a safe position, remembering continually what a 
noble thing it is to round out your life before death comes, and 
then await in peace the remaining portion of your time, claiming[1] 
nothing for yourself, since you are in possession of the happy life; 
for such a life is not made happier for being longer.
  O when shall you see the time when you shall know that time 
means nothing to you, when you shall be peaceful and calm, 
careless of the morrow, because you are enjoying your life to the 
full?
  Would you know what makes men greedy for the future? It is 
because no one has yet found himself. Your parents, to be sure, 
asked other blessings for you; but I myself pray rather that you 
may despise all those things which your parents wished for you in 
abundance. Their prayers plunder many another person, simply 
that you may be enriched. Whatever they make over to you must 
be removed from someone else.
  I pray that you may get such control over yourself that your 
mind, now shaken by wandering thoughts, may at last come to 
rest and be steadfast, that it may be content with itself and, having 
attained an understanding of what things are truly good—and 
they are in our possession as soon as we have this knowledge—
that it may have no need of added years. He has at length passed 
beyond all necessities—he has won his honourable discharge and 
is free—who still lives after his life has been completed. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. The text seems to be corrupt. Hense thinks thatexpectare  is to be supplied 
 with nihil sibi—“To expect nothing for oneself”; but the use of the verb 
 in two meanings would be harsh. The thought seems to be “asking for no 
 added years”; and one suspects that the loss of a word like adrogantem 
 before nihil.
                    LETTER 33
      On the Futility of Learning Maxims
                        A

You wish me to close these letters also, as I closed my former let-
ters, with certain utterances taken from the chiefs of our school. 
But they did not interest themselves in choice extracts; the whole 
texture of their work is full of strength. There is unevenness, you 
know, when some objects rise conspicuous above others. A single 
tree is not remarkable if the whole forest rises to the same height.
  Poetry is crammed with utterances of this sort, and so is 
history. For this reason I would not have you think that these 
utterances belong to Epicurus. they are common property and are 
emphatically our own.[1] They are, however, more noteworthy in 
Epicurus, because they appear at infrequent intervals and when 
you do not expect them, and because it is surprising that brave 
words should be spoken at any time by a man who made a practice 
of being effeminate. For that is what most persons maintain. 
In my own opinion, however, Epicurus is really a brave man, 
even though he did wear long sleeves.[2] Fortitude, energy, and 
readiness for battle are to be found among the Persians,[3] just as 
much as among men who have girded themselves up high.
  Therefore, you need not call upon me for extracts and 
quotations; such thoughts as one may extract here and there in 
the works of other philosophers run through the whole body of 
our writings. Hence we have no “show-window goods,” nor do we 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 157

deceive the purchaser in such a way that, if he enters our shop, he 
will find nothing except that which is displayed in the window. 
We allow the purchasers themselves to get their samples from 
anywhere they please.
  Suppose we should desire to sort out each separate motto 
from the general stock; to whom shall we credit them? To Zeno, 
Cleanthes, Chrysippus, Panaetius, or Posidonius? We Stoics are 
not subjects of a despot: each of us lays claim to his own freedom. 
With them,[4] on the other hand, whatever Hermarchus says or 
Metrodorus, is ascribed to one source. In that brotherhood, 
everything that any man utters is spoken under the leadership 
and commanding authority[5] of one alone. We cannot, I maintain, 
no matter how we try, pick out anything from so great a multitude 
of things equally good.

     Only the poor man counts his flock.[6]

  Wherever you direct your gaze, you will meet with something 
that might stand out from the rest, if the context in which you 
read it were not equally notable.
  For this reason, give over hoping that you can skim, by means 
of epitomes, the wisdom of distinguished men. Look into their 
wisdom as a whole; study it as a whole. They are working out a 
plan and weaving together, line upon line, a masterpiece, from 
which nothing can be taken away without injury to the whole. 
Examine the separate parts, if you like, provided you examine 
them as parts of the man himself. She is not a beautiful woman 
whose ankle or arm is praised, but she whose general appearance 
makes you forget to admire her single attributes.
  If you insist, however, I shall not be niggardly with you, but 
lavish; for there is a huge multitude of these passages; they are 
scattered about in profusion—they do not need to be gathered 
together, but merely to be picked up. They do not drip forth 
158 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

occasionally; they flow continuously. They are unbroken and are 
closely connected. Doubtless they would be of much benefit to 
those who are still novices and worshipping outside the shrine; 
for single maxims sink in more easily when they are marked off 
and bounded like a line of verse.
  That is why we give to children a proverb, or that which the 
Greeks call Chria,[7] to be learned by heart; that sort of thing can 
be comprehended by the young mind, which cannot as yet hold 
more. For a man, however, whose progress is definite, to chase 
after choice extracts and to prop his weakness by the best known 
and the briefest sayings and to depend upon his memory, is dis-
graceful; it is time for him to lean on himself. He should make 
such maxims and not memorize them. For it is disgraceful even 
for an old man, or one who has sighted old age, to have a note-
book knowledge. “This is what Zeno said.” But what have you 
yourself said? “This is the opinion of Cleanthes.” But what is your 
own opinion? How long shall you march under another man’s 
orders? Take command, and utter some word which posterity will 
remember. Put forth something from your own stock.
  For this reason I hold that there is nothing of eminence in 
all such men as these, who never create anything themselves, 
but always lurk in the shadow of others, playing the rôle of 
interpreters, never daring to put once into practice what they have 
been so long in learning. They have exercised their memories on 
other men’s material. But it is one thing to remember, another to 
know. Remembering is merely safeguarding something entrusted 
to the memory; knowing, however, means making everything 
your own; it means not depending upon the copy and not all the 
time glancing back at the master.
  “Thus said Zeno, thus said Cleanthes, indeed!” Let there be a 
difference between yourself and your book! How long shall you 
be a learner? From now on be a teacher as well! “But why,” one 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 159

asks,[8] “should I have to continue hearing lectures on what I can 
read?” “The living voice,” one replies, “is a great help.” Perhaps, 
but not the voice which merely makes itself the mouthpiece of 
another’s words, and only performs the duty of a reporter.
  Consider this fact also. Those who have never attained their 
mental independence begin, in the first place, by following the 
leader in cases where everyone has deserted the leader; then, in 
the second place, they follow him in matters where the truth is still 
being investigated. However, the truth will never be discovered 
if we rest contented with discoveries already made. Besides, he 
who follows another not only discovers nothing but is not even 
investigating.
  What then? Shall I not follow in the footsteps of my 
predecessors? I shall indeed use the old road, but if I find one 
that makes a shorter cut and is smoother to travel, I shall open 
the new road. Men who have made these discoveries before us 
are not our masters, but our guides. Truth lies open for all; it has 
not yet been monopolized. And there is plenty of it left even for 
posterity to discover. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Stoic as well as Epicurean.
2. Contrasted with alte cinctos. The sleeveless and “girt-up” tunic is the sign of 
 energy; cf. Horace, Sat. i. 5. 5, and Suetonius, Caligula, 52: the effeminate 
 Caligula would “appear in public with a long-sleeved tunic and bracelets.”
3. Who wore sleeves.
4. i.e., the Epicureans.
5. For the phrase ductu et auspiciis see Plautus, Amph. i. 1. 41 ut gesserit rem 
 publicam ductu imperio auspicio suo; and Horace, Od. i. 7. 27 Teucro duce et 
 auspice Teucro. The original significance of the phrase refers to the right of 
 the commander-in-chief to take the auspices.
6. Ovid, Metamorphosis, xiii. 824.
7. Either “maxims” or “outlines,” “themes.” For a discussion of them see 
 Quintilian, Inst. Orat. i. 9. 3 ff.
8. The objector is the assumed auditor. The answer to the objection gives 
 the usual view as to the power of the living voice; to this Seneca assents, 
 provided that the voice has a message of its own.
                    LETTER 34
             On a Promising Pupil
                        A

I grow in spirit and leap for joy and shake off my years and 
my blood runs warm again, whenever I understand, from your 
actions and your letters, how far you have outdone yourself; for 
as to the ordinary man, you left him in the rear long ago. If the 
farmer is pleased when his tree develops so that it bears fruit, if 
the shepherd takes pleasure in the increase of his flocks, if every 
man regards his pupil as though he discerned in him his own early 
manhood—what, then, do you think are the feelings of those who 
have trained a mind and moulded a young idea, when they see it 
suddenly grown to maturity?
  I claim you for myself; you are my handiwork. When I saw 
your abilities, I laid my hand upon you,[1] I exhorted you, I applied 
the goad and did not permit you to march lazily, but roused you 
continually. And now I do the same; but by this time I am cheering 
on one who is in the race and so in turn cheers me on.
  “What else do you want of me, then?” you ask; “the will is 
still mine.” Well, the will in this case is almost everything, and 
not merely the half, as in the proverb “A task once begun is half 
done.” It is more than half, for the matter of which we speak is 
determined by the soul.[2] Hence it is that the larger part of good-
ness is the will to become good. You know what I mean by a good 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 161

man? One who is complete, finished—whom no constraint or 
need can render bad.
  I see such a person in you, if only you go steadily on and 
bend to your task, and see to it that all your actions and words 
harmonize and correspond with each other and are stamped in 
the same mould. If a man’s acts are out of harmony, his soul is 
crooked. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. A reference to the act (iniectio) by which a Roman took possession of 
 a thing belonging to him, e.g., a runaway slave—without a decision of 
 the court
2. i.e., the proverb may apply to tasks which a man performs with his hands, 
 but it is an understatement when applied to the tasks of the soul.
                    LETTER 35
     On the Friendship of Kindred Minds
                        A

When I urge you so strongly to your studies, it is my own interest 
which I am consulting; I want your friendship, and it cannot fall 
to my lot unless you proceed, as you have begun, with the task 
of developing yourself. For now, although you love me, you are 
not yet my friend. “But,” you reply, “are these words of different 
meaning?” Nay, more, they are totally unlike in meaning.[1] A 
friend loves you, of course; but one who loves you is not in every 
case your friend. Friendship, accordingly, is always helpful, but 
love sometimes even does harm. Try to perfect yourself, if for no 
other reason, in order that you may learn how to love.
  Hasten, therefore, in order that, while thus perfecting yourself 
for my benefit, you may not have learned perfection for the 
benefit of another. To be sure, I am already deriving some profit 
by imagining that we two shall be of one mind, and that whatever 
portion of my strength has yielded to age will return to me from 
your strength, although there is not so very much difference in 
our ages.
  But yet I wish to rejoice in the accomplished fact. We feel a 
joy over those whom we love, even when separated from them, 
but such a joy is light and fleeting; the sight of a man, and his 
presence, and communion with him, afford something of living 
pleasure; this is true, at any rate, if one not only sees the man 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 163

one desires, but the sort of man one desires. Give yourself to 
me, therefore, as a gift of great price, and, that you may strive 
the more, reflect that you yourself are mortal, and that I am old.
  Hasten to find me, but hasten to find yourself first. Make 
progress, and, before all else, endeavour to be consistent with 
yourself. And when you would find out whether you have 
accomplished anything, consider whether you desire the same 
things today that you desired yesterday. A shifting of the will 
indicates that the mind is at sea, heading in various directions, 
according to the course of the wind. But that which is settled 
and solid does not wander from its place. This is the blessed lot 
of the completely wise man, and also, to a certain extent, of him 
who is progressing and has made some headway. Now what is the 
difference between these two classes of men? The one is in motion, 
to be sure, but does not change its position; it merely tosses up 
and down where it is; the other is not in motion at all. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. The question of Lucilius represents the popular view, which regards love 
 as including friendship. But according to Seneca it is only the perfect love, 
 from which all selfishness has been removed, that becomes identical with 
 friendship.
                    LETTER 36
          On the Value of Retirement
                        A

Encourage your friend to despise stout-heartedly those who 
upbraid him because he has sought the shade of retirement and 
has abdicated his career of honours, and, though he might have 
attained more, has preferred tranquillity to them all. Let him 
prove daily to these detractors how wisely he has looked out for 
his own interests. Those whom men envy will continue to march 
past him; some will be pushed out of the ranks, and others will 
fall. Prosperity is a turbulent thing; it torments itself. It stirs the 
brain in more ways than one, goading men on to various aims—
some to power, and others to high living. Some it puffs up; others 
it slackens and wholly enervates.
  “But,” the retort comes, “so-and-so carries his prosperity well.” 
Yes; just as he carries his liquor. So you need not let this class of 
men persuade you that one who is besieged by the crowd is happy; 
they run to him as crowds rush for a pool of water, rendering it 
muddy while they drain it. But you say: “Men call our friend a 
trifler and a sluggard.” There are men, you know, whose speech is 
awry, who use the contrary[1] terms. They called him happy; what 
of it? Was he happy?
  Even the fact that to certain persons he seems a man of a very 
rough and gloomy cast of mind, does not trouble me. Aristo[2] 
used to say that he preferred a youth of stern disposition to one 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 165

who was a jolly fellow and agreeable to the crowd. “For,” he added, 
“wine which, when new, seemed harsh and sour, becomes good 
wine; but that which tasted well at the vintage cannot stand age.” 
So let them call him stern and a foe to his own advancement, it 
is just this sternness that will go well when it is aged, provided 
only that he continues to cherish virtue and to absorb thoroughly 
the studies which make for culture—not those with which it is 
sufficient for a man to sprinkle himself, but those in which the 
mind should be steeped.
  Now is the time to learn. “What? Is there any time when a 
man should not learn?” By no means; but just as it is creditable 
for every age to study, so it is not creditable for every age to be 
instructed. An old man learning his A B C is a disgraceful and 
absurd object; the young man must store up, the old man must 
use. You will therefore be doing a thing most helpful to yourself 
if you make this friend of yours as good a man as possible; those 
kindnesses, they tell us, are to be both sought for and bestowed, 
which benefit the giver no less than the receiver; and they are 
unquestionably the best kind.
  Finally, he has no longer any freedom in the matter; he has 
pledged his word. And it is less disgraceful to compound with 
a creditor than to compound with a promising future. To pay 
his debt of money, the business man must have a prosperous 
voyage, the farmer must have fruitful fields and kindly weather; 
but the debt which your friend owes can be completely paid by 
mere goodwill.
  Fortune has no jurisdiction over character. Let him so regulate 
his character that in perfect peace he may bring to perfection that 
spirit within him which feels neither loss nor gain, but remains in 
the same attitude, no matter how things fall out. A spirit like this, 
if it is heaped with worldly goods, rises superior to its wealth; if, 
166 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

on the other hand, chance has stripped him of a part of his wealth, 
or even all, it is not impaired.
  If your friend had been born in Parthia, he would have begun, 
when a child, to bend the bow; if in Germany, he would forthwith 
have been brandishing his slender spear; if he had been born in 
the days of our forefathers, he would have learned to ride a horse 
and smite his enemy hand to hand. These are the occupations 
which the system of each race recommends to the individual—
yes, prescribes for him.
  To what, then, shall this friend[3] of yours devote his attention? I 
say, let him learn that which is helpful against all weapons, against 
every kind of foe—contempt of death; because no one doubts that 
death has in it something that inspires terror, so that it shocks 
even our souls, which nature has so moulded that they love their 
own existence; for otherwise[4] there would be no need to prepare 
ourselves, and to whet our courage, to face that towards which 
we should move with a sort of voluntary instinct, precisely as all 
men tend to preserve their existence.
  No man learns a thing in order that, if necessity arises, he may 
lie down with composure upon a bed of roses; but he steels his 
courage to this end, that he may not surrender his plighted faith to 
torture, and that, if need be, he may some day stay out his watch 
in the trenches, even though wounded, without even leaning on 
his spear; because sleep is likely to creep over men who support 
themselves by any prop whatsoever.
  In death there is nothing harmful; for there must exist 
something to which it is harmful.[5]
  And yet, if you are possessed by so great a craving for a longer 
life, reflect that none of the objects which vanish from our gaze 
and are re-absorbed into the world of things, from which they 
have come forth and are soon to come forth again, is annihilated; 
they merely end their course and do not perish. And death, which 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 167

we fear and shrink from, merely interrupts life, but does not steal 
it away; the time will return when we shall be restored to the light 
of day; and many men would object to this, were they not brought 
back in forgetfulness of the past.
  But I mean to show you later,[6] with more care, that everything 
which seems to perish merely changes. Since you are destined to 
return, you ought to depart with a tranquil mind. Mark how the 
round of the universe repeats its course; you will see that no star 
in our firmament is extinguished, but that they all set and rise in 
alternation. Summer has gone, but another year will bring it again; 
winter lies low, but will be restored by its own proper months; 
night has overwhelmed the sun, but day will soon rout the night 
again. The wandering stars retrace their former courses; a part of 
the sky is rising unceasingly, and a part is sinking.
  One word more, and then I shall stop; infants, and boys, and 
those who have gone mad, have no fear of death, and it is most 
shameful if reason cannot afford us that peace of mind to which 
they have been brought by their folly. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., they are no more correct now, when they called him a trifler, than they 
 were before, when they called him happy.
2. Aristo of Chios, Frag. 388 von Armin.
3. As a Roman, living in an age when philosophy was recommended and 
 prescribed.
4. i.e., if death inspired no terror.
5. And since after death we do not exist, death cannot be harmful to us. 
 Seneca has in mind the argument of Epicurus (Diogenes Laertius, 
 x. 124-5): “Therefore the most dread-inspiring of all evils, death, is nothing 
 to us; for when we exist; death is not present in us, and when death is 
 present, then we do not exist. Therefore it does not concern either the 
 living or the dead; for to the living it has no existence, and the dead do 
 not themselves exist.” Lucretius uses this argument, concluding it with (iii. 
 830): Nil igitur mors est ad nos neque pertinet hilum.
6. For example, in Ep. lxxvii.
                    LETTER 37
            On Allegiance to Virtue
                        A

You have promised to be a good man; you have enlisted under 
oath; that is the strongest chain which will hold you to a sound 
understanding. Any man will be but mocking you, if he declares 
that this is an effeminate and easy kind of soldiering. I will not 
have you deceived. The word of this most honourable compact 
are the same as the words of that most disgraceful one, to wit:[1] 
“Through burning, imprisonment, or death by the sword.”
  From the men who hire out their strength for the arena, who 
eat and drink what they must pay for with their blood, security 
is taken that they will endure such trials even though they be 
unwilling; from you, that you will endure them willingly and with 
alacrity. The gladiator may lower his weapon and test the pity of 
the people;[2] but you will neither lower your weapon nor beg for 
life. You must die erect and unyielding. Moreover, what profit is 
it to gain a few days or a few years? There is no discharge for us 
from the moment we are born.
  “Then how can I free myself?” you ask. You cannot escape 
necessities, but you can overcome them

     By force a way is made.[3]

And this way will be afforded you by philosophy. Betake yourself 
therefore to philosophy if you would be safe, untroubled, happy, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 169

in fine, if you wish to be—and that is most important—free. There 
is no other way to attain this end.
  Folly[4] is low, abject, mean, slavish, and exposed to many of the 
cruellest passions. These passions, which are heavy taskmasters, 
sometimes ruling by turns, and sometimes together, can be 
banished from you by wisdom, which is the only real freedom. 
There is but one path leading thither, and it is a straight path; you 
will not go astray. Proceed with steady step, and if you would have 
all things under your control, put yourself under the control of 
reason; if reason becomes your ruler, you will become ruler over 
many. You will learn from her what you should undertake, and 
how it should be done; you will not blunder into things.
  You can show me no man who knows how he began to crave that 
which he craves. He has not been led to that pass by forethought; 
he has been driven to it by impulse. Fortune attacks us as often as 
we attack Fortune. It is disgraceful, instead of proceeding ahead, 
to be carried along, and then suddenly, amid the whirlpool of 
events, to ask in a dazed way: “How did I get into this condition?” 
Farewell.

Footnotes
1. He refers to the famous oath which the gladiator took when he hired 
 himself to the fighting-master; uri, vinciri, verberari, ferroque necari patior; 
 cf. Petronius, Sat. 117. The oath is abbreviated in the text, probably by 
 Seneca himself, who paraphrases it in Ep. lxxi. 23.
2. Awaiting the signal of “thumbs up” or “thumbs down.” Cf. Juvenal, iii. 36 
 verso pollice, vulgus Quem iubet occidunt populariter.
3. Vergil, Aeneid, ii. 494.
4. In the language of Stoicism, ἀμαθία, stultitia, “folly,” is the antithesis of 
 σοφία, sapientia, “wisdom.”
                    LETTER 38
            On Quiet Conversation
                        A

You are right when you urge that we increase our mutual traffic 
in letters. But the greatest benefit is to be derived from conversa-
tion, because it creeps by degrees into the soul. Lectures prepared 
beforehand and spouted in the presence of a throng have in them 
more noise but less intimacy. Philosophy is good advice; and no 
one can give advice at the top of his lungs. Of course we must 
sometimes also make use of these harangues, if I may so call them, 
when a doubting member needs to be spurred on; but when the 
aim is to make a man learn and not merely to make him wish to 
learn, we must have recourse to the low-toned words of conversa-
tion. They enter more easily, and stick in the memory; for we do 
not need many words, but, rather, effective words.
  Words should be scattered like seed; no matter how small the 
seed may be, if it has once found favourable ground, it unfolds 
its strength and from an insignificant thing spreads to its great-
est growth. Reason grows in the same way; it is not large to the 
outward view, but increases as it does its work. Few words are 
spoken; but if the mind has truly caught them, they come into 
their strength and spring up. Yes, precepts and seeds have the 
same quality; they produce much, and yet they are slight things. 
Only, as I said, let a favourable mind receive and assimilate them. 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 171

Then of itself the mind also will produce bounteously in its turn, 
giving back more than it has received. Farewell.
 THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS


      “Good”: An Essay by Jocko Willink
          Source: Tools of Titans by Tim Ferriss


Background from Tim: Jocko Willink (FB/TW: @jockowillink; 
jockopodcast.com) is one of the scariest human beings imagin-
able. He is a lean 230 pounds. He is a Brazilian jiu-jitsu black belt 
who used to tap out 20 Navy SEALs per workout. He is a legend 
in the special operations world, and his eyes look through you 
more than at you. His interview with me was the first interview 
he ever did, and it took the Internet by storm. 
  Jocko spent 20 years in the U.S. Navy and commanded SEAL 
Team Three’s Task Unit Bruiser, the most highly decorated special 
operations unit from the Iraq war. Upon returning to the United 
States, Jocko served as the officer-in-charge of training for all West 
Coast SEAL Teams, designing and implementing some of the 
most challenging and realistic combat training in the world. After 
retiring from the Navy, he co-founded Echelon Front, a leader-
ship and management consulting company, and co-authored the 
#1 New York Times bestseller Extreme Ownership: How U.S. Navy 
SEALs Lead and Win. 
  He now discusses war, leadership, business and life in his top-
rated podcast, Jocko Podcast. He is an avid surfer, a husband, and 
the father of four “highly motivated” children.
           THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | JOCKO WILLINK 173

ENTER JOCKO
How do I deal with setbacks, failures, delays, defeat, or other 
disasters? I actually have a fairly simple way of dealing with these 
situations. There is one word to deal with all those situations, and 
that is: “good.”
  This is something that one of my direct subordinates, one of 
the guys who worked for me, a guy who became one of my best 
friends, pointed out. He would call me up or pull me aside with 
some major problem or some issue that was going on, and he’d 
say, “Boss, we got this, that, or the other thing going wrong,” and 
I would look at him and I’d say, “Good.”
  And finally, one day, he was telling me about some situation 
that was going off the rails, and as soon as he got done explaining 
it to me, he said, “I already know what you’re going to say.”
  And I asked, “What am I going to say?”
  He said, “You’re going to say: ‘Good.’”
  He continued, “That’s what you always say. When something is 
wrong or going bad, you just look at me and say, ‘Good.’”
  And I said, “Well, I mean it. Because that is how I operate.” So 
I explained to him that when things are going bad, there’s going 
to be some good that will come from it.

  ➞ Oh, mission got cancelled? Good. We can focus on 
    another one.

  ➞ Didn’t get the new high-speed gear we wanted? Good. We 
    can keep it simple.

  ➞ Didn’t get promoted? Good. More time to get better.

  ➞ Didn’t get funded? Good. We own more of the company.

  ➞ Didn’t get the job you wanted? Good. Go out, gain more 
    experience, and build a better résumé.
174 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  ➞ Got injured? Good. Needed a break from training.

  ➞ Got tapped out? Good. It’s better to tap out in training 
    than to tap out on the street.

  ➞ Got beat? Good. We learned.

  ➞ Unexpected problems? Good. We have the opportunity to 
    figure out a solution.

  That’s it. When things are going bad, don’t get all bummed out, 
don’t get startled, don’t get frustrated. No. Just look at the issue 
and say: “Good.”
  Now. I don’t mean to say something clichéd. I’m not trying to 
sound like Mr. Smiley Positive Guy. That guy ignores the hard 
truth. That guy thinks a positive attitude will solve problems. 
It won’t. But neither will dwelling on the problem. No. Accept 
reality, but focus on the solution. Take that issue, take that set-
back, take that problem, and turn it into something good. Go 
forward. And, if you are part of a team, that attitude will spread 
throughout.
  Finally, to close this up: If you can say the word “good,” guess 
what? It means you’re still alive. It means you’re still breathing.
  And if you’re still breathing, that means you’ve still got some 
fight left in you. So get up, dust off, reload, recalibrate, re-engage, 
and go out on the attack.
  And that, right there, is about as good as it gets.
                   LETTER 39
             On Noble Aspirations
                       A

I shall indeed arrange for you, in careful order and narrow com-
pass, the notes which you request. But consider whether you may 
not get more help from the customary method[1] than from that 
which is now commonly called a “breviary,” though in the good 
old days, when real Latin was spoken, it was called a “summary.”[2] 
The former is more necessary to one who is learning a subject, the 
latter to one who knows it. For the one teaches, the other stirs the 
memory. But I shall give you abundant opportunity for both.[3] A 
man like you should not ask me for this authority or that; he who 
furnishes a voucher for his statements argues himself unknown.
  I shall therefore write exactly what you wish, but I shall do it 
in my own way; until then, you have many authors whose works 
will presumably keep your ideas sufficiently in order. Pick up the 
list of the philosophers; that very act will compel you to wake up, 
when you see how many men have been working for your benefit. 
You will desire eagerly to be one of them yourself, for this is the 
most excellent quality that the noble soul has within itself, that it 
can be roused to honourable things.
  No man of exalted gifts is pleased with that which is low and 
mean; the vision of great achievement summons him and uplifts 
him.
176 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  Just as the flame springs straight into the air and cannot be 
cabined or kept down any more than it can repose in quiet, so our 
soul is always in motion, and the more ardent it is, the greater its 
motion and activity. But happy is the man who has given it this 
impulse toward better things! He will place himself beyond the 
jurisdiction of chance; he will wisely control prosperity; he will 
lessen adversity, and will despise what others hold in admiration.
  It is the quality of a great soul to scorn great things and to 
prefer that which is ordinary rather than that which is too great. 
For the one condition is useful and life-giving; but the other does 
harm just because it is excessive. Similarly, too rich a soil makes 
the grain fall flat, branches break down under too heavy a load, 
excessive productiveness does not bring fruit to ripeness. This 
is the case with the soul also; for it is ruined by uncontrolled 
prosperity, which is used not only to the detriment of others, but 
also to the detriment of itself.
  What enemy was ever so insolent to any opponent as are their 
pleasures to certain men? The only excuse that we can allow for 
the incontinence and mad lust of these men is the fact that they 
suffer the evils which they have inflicted upon others. And they 
are rightly harassed by this madness, because desire must have 
unbounded space for its excursions, if it transgresses nature’s 
mean. For this has its bounds, but waywardness and the acts that 
spring from wilful lust are without boundaries.
  Utility measures our needs; but by what standard can you check 
the superfluous? It is for this reason that men sink themselves 
in pleasures, and they cannot do without them when once they 
have become accustomed to them, and for this reason they are 
most wretched, because they have reached such a pass that what 
was once superfluous to them has become indispensable. And 
so they are the slaves of their pleasures instead of enjoying them; 
they even love their own ills,[4]—and that is the worst ill of all! 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    177

Then it is that the height of unhappiness is reached, when men 
are not only attracted, but even pleased, by shameful things, and 
when there is no longer any room for a cure, now that those things 
which once were vices have become habits. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. The regular method of studying philosophy was, as we infer from this 
  letter, a course of reading in the philosophers. Seneca deprecates the use of 
  the “cram” which is only a memory-help, as a substitute for reading, on the 
  ground that by its use one does not, in the first place, learn the subject, and, 
  in the second place and chiefly, that one loses the inspiration to be derived 
  by direct contact with great thinkers. The request of Lucilius for a cram 
  thus suggests the main topic of the letter, which is taken up in the second 
  paragraph.
2. i.e., the word breviarium, “abridgment,” “abstract,” has displaced the better 
  word summarium, “outline of chief points.”
3. i.e., to do the reading and to review it by means of the summary. The 
  reading will enable Lucilius to identify for himself the authors of the several 
  passages or doctrines.
4. i.e., their pleasures. These ills, by being cultivated, become vices.
                    LETTER 40
            On the Proper Style for a 
            Philosopher’s Discourse
                        A

I thank you for writing to me so often; for you are revealing your 
real self to me in the only way you can. I never receive a letter from 
you without being in your company forthwith. If the pictures of 
our absent friends are pleasing to us, though they only refresh the 
memory and lighten our longing by a solace that is unreal and 
unsubstantial, how much more pleasant is a letter, which brings 
us real traces, real evidences, of an absent friend! For that which 
is sweetest when we meet face to face is afforded by the impress 
of a friend’s hand upon his letter—recognition.
  You write me that you heard a lecture by the philosopher 
Serapio,[1] when he landed at your present place of residence. “He 
is wont,” you say, “to wrench up his words with a mighty rush, 
and he does not let them flow forth one by one, but makes them 
crowd and dash upon each other.[2] For the words come in such 
quantity that a single voice is inadequate to utter them.” I do not 
approve of this in a philosopher; his speech, like his life, should 
be composed; and nothing that rushes headlong and is hurried 
is well ordered. That is why, in Homer, the rapid style, which 
sweeps down without a break like a snow-squall, is assigned to 
the younger speaker; from the old man eloquence flows gently, 
sweeter than honey.[3]
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 179

  Therefore, mark my words; that forceful manner of speech, 
rapid and copious, is more suited to a mountebank than to a man 
who is discussing and teaching an important and serious subject. 
But I object just as strongly that he should drip out his words as 
that he should go at top speed; he should neither keep the ear 
on the stretch, nor deafen it. For that poverty-stricken and thin-
spun style also makes the audience less attentive because they are 
weary of its stammering slowness; nevertheless, the word which 
has been long awaited sinks in more easily than the word which 
flits past us on the wing. Finally, people speak of “handing down” 
precepts to their pupils; but one is not “handing down” that which 
eludes the grasp.
  Besides, speech that deals with the truth should be unadorned 
and plain. This popular style has nothing to do with the truth; 
its aim is to impress the common herd, to ravish heedless ears by 
its speed; it does not offer itself for discussion, but snatches itself 
away from discussion. But how can that speech govern others 
which cannot itself be governed? May I not also remark that all 
speech which is employed for the purpose of healing our minds, 
ought to sink into us? Remedies do not avail unless they remain 
in the system.
  Besides, this sort of speech contains a great deal of sheer 
emptiness; it has more sound than power. My terrors should 
be quieted, my irritations soothed, my illusions shaken off, my 
indulgences checked, my greed rebuked. And which of these cures 
can be brought about in a hurry? What physician can heal his 
patient on a flying visit? May I add that such a jargon of confused 
and ill-chosen words cannot afford pleasure, either?
  No; but just as you are well satisfied, in the majority of cases, to 
have seen through tricks which you did not think could possibly 
be done,[4] so in the case of these word-gymnasts to have heard 
them once is amply sufficient. For what can a man desire to learn 
180 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

or to imitate in them? What is he to think of their souls, when 
their speech is sent into the charge in utter disorder, and cannot 
be kept in hand?
  Just as, when you run down hill, you cannot stop at the point 
where you had decided to stop, but your steps are carried along 
by the momentum of your body and are borne beyond the place 
where you wished to halt; so this speed of speech has no control 
over itself, nor is it seemly for philosophy; since philosophy 
should carefully place her words, not fling them out, and should 
proceed step by step.
  “What then?” you say; “should not philosophy sometimes take 
a loftier tone?” Of course she should; but dignity of character 
should be preserved, and this is stripped away by such violent and 
excessive force. Let philosophy possess great forces, but kept well 
under control; let her stream flow unceasingly, but never become 
a torrent. And I should hardly allow even to an orator a rapidity of 
speech like this, which cannot be called back, which goes lawlessly 
ahead; for how could it be followed by jurors, who are often 
inexperienced and untrained? Even when the orator is carried 
away by his desire to show off his powers, or by uncontrollable 
emotion, even then he should not quicken his pace and heap up 
words to an extent greater than the ear can endure.
  You will be acting rightly, therefore, if you do not regard those 
men who seek how much they may say, rather than how they shall 
say it, and if for yourself you choose, provided a choice must be 
made, to speak as Publius Vinicius the stammerer does. When 
Asellius was asked how Vinicius spoke, he replied: “Gradually”! 
(It was a remark of Geminus Varius, by the way: “I don’t see how 
you can call that man ‘eloquent’; why, he can’t get out three words 
together.”) Why, then, should you not choose to speak as Vinicius 
does?
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 181

  Though of course some wag may cross your path, like the per-
son who said, when Vinicius was dragging out his words one 
by one, as if he were dictating and not speaking. “Say, haven’t 
you anything to say?” And yet that were the better choice, for 
the rapidity of Quintus Haterius, the most famous orator of his 
age, is, in my opinion, to be avoided by a man of sense. Haterius 
never hesitated, never paused; he made only one start, and only 
one stop.
  However, I suppose that certain styles of speech are more or 
less suitable to nations also; in a Greek you can put up with the 
unrestrained style, but we Romans, even when writing, have 
become accustomed to separate our words.[5] And our compatriot 
Cicero, with whom Roman oratory sprang into prominence, was 
also a slow pacer.[6] The Roman language is more inclined to take 
stock of itself, to weigh, and to offer something worth weighing.
  Fabianius, a man noteworthy because of his life, his knowledge, 
and, less important than either of these, his eloquence also, used 
to discuss a subject with dispatch rather than with haste; hence 
you might call it ease rather than speed. I approve this quality in 
the wise man; but I do not demand it; only let his speech proceed 
unhampered, though I prefer that it should be deliberately uttered 
rather than spouted.
  However, I have this further reason for frightening you away 
from the latter malady, namely, that you could only be success-
ful in practicing this style by losing your sense of modesty; you 
would have to rub all shame from your countenance,[7] and refuse 
to hear yourself speak. For that heedless flow will carry with it 
many expressions which you would wish to criticize.
  And, I repeat, you could not attain it and at the same time 
preserve your sense of shame. Moreover, you would need to prac-
tice every day, and transfer your attention from subject matter to 
words. But words, even if they came to you readily and flowed 
182   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

without any exertion on your part, yet would have to be kept 
under control. For just as a less ostentatious gait becomes a phi-
losopher, so does a restrained style of speech, far removed from 
boldness. Therefore, the ultimate kernel of my remarks is this: I 
bid you be slow of speech. Farewell

Footnotes
1. This person cannot be identified.
2. The explanation of Professor Summers seems sound, that the metaphor is 
  taken from a mountain-torrent. Compare the description of Cratinus’ style 
  in Aristophanes, Ach. 526, or that of Pindar in Horace, Od. iv. 2. 5 ff.
3. Iliad, iii. 222 (Odysseus), and i. 249 (Nestor).
4. Seneca’s phrase, quae fieri posse non crederes, has been interpreted as a 
  definition of παράδοξα. It is more probable, however, that he is comparing 
  with the juggler’s tricks the verbal performances of certain lecturers, whose 
  jargon one marvels at but does not care to hear again.
5. The Greek texts were still written without separation of the words, in 
  contrast with the Roman.
6. Gradarius  may be contrasted with tolutarius, “trotter.” The word might also 
  mean one who walks with dignified step, as in a religious procession.
7. Cf. Martial, xi. 27. 7 aut cum perfricuit frontem posuitque pudorem. After a 
  violent rubbing, the face would not show blushes.
                   LETTER 41
             On the God Within Us
                       A

You are doing an excellent thing, one which will be wholesome 
for you, if, as you write me, you are persisting in your effort to 
attain sound understanding; it is foolish to pray for this when you 
can acquire it from yourself. We do not need to uplift our hands 
towards heaven, or to beg the keeper of a temple to let us approach 
his idol’s ear, as if in this way our prayers were more likely to be 
heard. God is near you, he is with you, he is within you.
  This is what I mean, Lucilius: a holy spirit indwells within us, 
one who marks our good and bad deeds, and is our guardian. As 
we treat this spirit, so are we treated by it. Indeed, no man can be 
good without the help of God. Can one rise superior to fortune 
unless God helps him to rise? He it is that gives noble and upright 
counsel. In each good man

     A god doth dwell, but what god know we not.[1]

  If ever you have come upon a grove that is full of ancient trees 
which have grown to an unusual height, shutting out a view of 
the sky by a veil of pleached and intertwining branches, then the 
loftiness of the forest, the seclusion of the spot, and your marvel 
at the thick unbroken shade in the midst of the open spaces, will 
prove to you the presence of deity. Or if a cave, made by the deep 
crumbling of the rocks, holds up a mountain on its arch, a place 
184 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

not built with hands but hollowed out into such spaciousness 
by natural causes, your soul will be deeply moved by a certain 
intimation of the existence of God. We worship the sources of 
mighty rivers; we erect altars at places where great streams burst 
suddenly from hidden sources; we adore springs of hot water as 
divine, and consecrate certain pools because of their dark waters 
or their immeasurable depth.
  If you see a man who is unterrified in the midst of dangers, 
untouched by desires, happy in adversity, peaceful amid the 
storm, who looks down upon men from a higher plane, and views 
the gods on a footing of equality, will not a feeling of reverence for 
him steal over you, will you not say: “This quality is too great and 
too lofty to be regarded as resembling this petty body in which it 
dwells? A divine power has descended upon that man.”
  When a soul rises superior to other souls, when it is under 
control, when it passes through every experience as if it were of 
small account, when it smiles at our fears and at our prayers, it 
is stirred by a force from heaven. A thing like this cannot stand 
upright unless it be propped by the divine. Therefore, a greater 
part of it abides in that place from whence it came down to earth. 
Just as the rays of the sun do indeed touch the earth, but still 
abide at the source from which they are sent; even so the great 
and hallowed soul, which has come down in order that we may 
have a nearer knowledge of divinity, does indeed associate with 
us, but still cleaves to its origin; on that source it depends, thither 
it turns its gaze and strives to go, and it concerns itself with our 
doings only as a being superior to ourselves.
  What, then, is such a soul? One which is resplendent with no 
external good, but only with its own. For what is more foolish 
than to praise in a man the qualities which come from without? 
And what is more insane than to marvel at characteristics which 
may at the next instant be passed on to someone else? A golden 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 185

bit does not make a better horse. The lion with gilded mane, in 
process of being trained and forced by weariness to endure the 
decoration, is sent into the arena in quite a different way from 
the wild lion whose spirit is unbroken; the latter, indeed, bold in 
his attack, as nature wished him to be, impressive because of his 
wild appearance—and it is his glory that none can look upon him 
without fear—is favoured[2] in preference to the other lion, that 
languid and gilded brute.
  No man ought to glory except in that which is his own. We 
praise a vine if it makes the shoots teem with increase, if by its 
weight it bends to the ground the very poles which hold its fruit; 
would any man prefer to this vine one from which golden grapes 
and golden leaves hang down? In a vine the virtue peculiarly 
its own is fertility; in man also we should praise that which is 
his own. Suppose that he has a retinue of comely slaves and a 
beautiful house, that his farm is large and large his income; none 
of these things is in the man himself; they are all on the outside.
  Praise the quality in him which cannot be given or snatched 
away, that which is the peculiar property of the man. Do you ask 
what this is? It is soul, and reason brought to perfection in the 
soul. For man is a reasoning animal. Therefore, man’s highest 
good is attained, if he has fulfilled the good for which nature 
designed him at birth.
  And what is it which this reason demands of him? The easiest 
thing in the world—to live in accordance with his own nature. But 
this is turned into a hard task by the general madness of mankind; 
we push one another into vice. And how can a man be recalled 
to salvation, when he has none to restrain him, and all mankind 
to urge him on? Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Vergil, Aeneid, viii. 352, Hoc nemus, hune, inquit, frondoso vertice collem, 
 Quis deus incertum est, habitat deus, and cf. Quintillian, i. 10. 88, where 
 he is speaking of Ennius, whom “sicut sacros vetustate lucos adoremus, in 
186   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  quibus grandia et antiqua robora iam non tantum habent speciem quantem 
  religionem.”
2. The spectators of the fight, which is to take place between the two lions, 
  applaud the wild lion and bet on him.
                   LETTER 42
                    On Values
                       A

    [If interested, a free audiobook version of this letter 
      can be found at this web address: tim.blog/42] 

Has that friend of yours already made you believe that he is a 
good man? And yet it is impossible in so short a time for one 
either to become good or be known as such.[1] Do you know what 
kind of man I now mean when I speak of “a good man”? I mean 
one of the second grade, like your friend. For one of the first class 
perhaps springs into existence, like the phoenix, only once in 
five hundred years. And it is not surprising, either, that greatness 
develops only at long intervals; Fortune often brings into being 
commonplace powers, which are born to please the mob; but she 
holds up for our approval that which is extraordinary by the very 
fact that she makes it rare.
  This man, however, of whom you spoke, is still far from the 
state which he professes to have reached. And if he knew what it 
meant to be “a good man,” he would not yet believe himself such; 
perhaps he would even despair of his ability to become good. 
“But,” you say, “he thinks ill of evil men.” Well, so do evil men 
themselves; and there is no worse penalty for vice than the fact 
that it is dissatisfied with itself and all its fellows.
188 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  “But he hates those who make an ungoverned use of great 
power suddenly acquired.” I retort that he will do the same thing 
as soon as he acquires the same powers. In the case of many men, 
their vices, being powerless, escape notice; although, as soon as 
the persons in question have become satisfied with their own 
strength, the vices will be no less daring than those which pros-
perity has already disclosed.
  These men simply lack the means whereby they may unfold 
their wickedness. Similarly, one can handle even a poisonous 
snake while it is stiff with cold; the poison is not lacking; it is 
merely numbed into inaction. In the case of many men, their 
cruelty, ambition, and indulgence only lack the favour of Fortune 
to make them dare crimes that would match the worst. That their 
wishes are the same you will in a moment discover, in this way: 
give them the power equal to their wishes.
  Do you remember how, when you declared that a certain 
person was under your influence, I pronounced him fickle and 
a bird of passage, and said that you held him not by the foot but 
merely by a wing? Was I mistaken? You grasped him only by a 
feather; he left it in your hands and escaped. You know what an 
exhibition he afterwards made of himself before you, how many 
of the things he attempted were to recoil upon his own head. 
He did not see that in endangering others he was tottering to 
his own downfall. He did not reflect how burdensome were the 
objects which he was bent upon attaining, even if they were not 
superfluous.
  Therefore, with regard to the objects which we pursue, and 
for which we strive with great effort, we should note this truth; 
either there is nothing desirable in them, or the undesirable is 
preponderant. Some objects are superfluous; others are not worth 
the price we pay for them. But we do not see this clearly, and we 
regard things as free gifts when they really cost us very dear.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 189

  Our stupidity may be clearly proved by the fact that we hold 
that “buying” refers only to the objects for which we pay cash, 
and we regard as free gifts the things for which we spend our very 
selves. These we should refuse to buy, if we were compelled to give 
in payment for them our houses or some attractive and profitable 
estate; but we are eager to attain them at the cost of anxiety, of 
danger, and of lost honour, personal freedom, and time; so true 
it is that each man regards nothing as cheaper than himself.
  Let us therefore act, in all our plans and conduct, just as we 
are accustomed to act whenever we approach a huckster who 
has certain wares for sale; let us see how much we must pay for 
that which we crave. Very often the things that cost nothing cost 
us the most heavily; I can show you many objects the quest and 
acquisition of which have wrested freedom from our hands. We 
should belong to ourselves, if only these things did not belong 
to us.
  I would therefore have you reflect thus, not only when it is a 
question of gain, but also when it is a question of loss. “This object 
is bound to perish.” Yes, it was a mere extra; you will live without it 
just as easily as you have lived before. If you have possessed it for a 
long time, you lose it after you have had your fill of it; if you have 
not possessed it long, then you lose it before you have become 
wedded to it. “You will have less money.” Yes, and less trouble.
  “Less influence.” Yes, and less envy. Look about you and note 
the things that drive us mad, which we lose with a flood of tears; 
you will perceive that it is not the loss that troubles us with 
reference to these things, but a notion of loss. No one feels that 
they have been lost, but his mind tells him that it has been so. He 
that owns himself has lost nothing. But how few men are blessed 
with ownership of self! Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Seneca doubtless has in mind the famous passage of Simonides, ἄνδρ᾽ 
 ἀγαθὸν μὲν ἀληθῶς γενέσθαι χαλεπόν, discussed by Plato, Protagoras, 339 A.
                    LETTER 43
           On the Relativity of Fame
                        A

Do you ask how the news reached me, and who informed me, 
that you were entertaining this idea, of which you had said noth-
ing to a single soul? It was that most knowing of persons—gossip. 
“What,” you say, “am I such a great personage that I can stir up 
gossip?” Now there is no reason why you should measure yourself 
according to this part of the world;[1] have regard only to the place 
where you are dwelling.
  Any point which rises above adjacent points is great, at the spot 
where it rises. For greatness is not absolute; comparison increases 
it or lessens it. A ship which looms large in the river seems tiny 
when on the ocean. A rudder which is large for one vessel, is 
small for another.
  So you in your province[2] are really of importance, though 
you scorn yourself. Men are asking what you do, how you dine, 
and how you sleep, and they find out, too; hence there is all the 
more reason for your living circumspectly. Do not, however, deem 
yourself truly happy until you find that you can live before men’s 
eyes, until your walls protect but do not hide you; although we 
are apt to believe that these walls surround us, not to enable us 
to live more safely, but that we may sin more secretly.
  I shall mention a fact by which you may weigh the worth of a 
man’s character: you will scarcely find anyone who can live with 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 191

his door wide open. It is our conscience, not our pride, that has 
put doorkeepers at our doors; we live in such a fashion that being 
suddenly disclosed to view is equivalent to being caught in the 
act. What profits it, however, to hide ourselves away, and to avoid 
the eyes and ears of men?
  A good conscience welcomes the crowd, but a bad conscience, 
even in solitude, is disturbed and troubled. If your deeds are 
honourable, let everybody know them; if base, what matters it 
that no one knows them, as long as you yourself know them? 
How wretched you are if you despise such a witness! Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., Rome.
2. Lucilius was at this time the imperial procurator in Sicily.
                    LETTER 44
         On Philosophy and Pedigrees
                        A

You are again insisting to me that you are a nobody, and saying 
that nature in the first place, and fortune in the second, have 
treated you too scurvily, and this in spite of the fact that you have 
it in your power to separate yourself from the crowd and rise to 
the highest human happiness! If there is any good in philosophy, 
it is this—that it never looks into pedigrees. All men, if traced 
back to their original source, spring from the gods.
  You are a Roman knight, and your persistent work promoted 
you to this class; yet surely there are many to whom the fourteen 
rows are barred;[1] the senate-chamber is not open to all; the army, 
too, is scrupulous in choosing those whom it admits to toil and 
danger. But a noble mind is free to all men; according to this test, 
we may all gain distinction. Philosophy neither rejects nor selects 
anyone; its light shines for all.
  Socrates was no aristocrat. Cleanthes worked at a well and 
served as a hired man watering a garden. Philosophy did not 
find Plato already a nobleman; it made him one. Why then should 
you despair of becoming able to rank with men like these? They 
are all your ancestors, if you conduct yourself in a manner worthy 
of them; and you will do so if you convince yourself at the outset 
that no man outdoes you in real nobility.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 193

  We have all had the same number of forefathers; there is no 
man whose first beginning does not transcend memory. Plato 
says: “Every king springs from a race of slaves, and every slave 
has had kings among his ancestors.”[2] The flight of time, with its 
vicissitudes, has jumbled all such things together, and Fortune 
has turned them upside down.
  Then who is well-born? He who is by nature well fitted for 
virtue. That is the one point to be considered; otherwise, if you 
hark back to antiquity, every one traces back to a date before 
which there is nothing. From the earliest beginnings of the 
universe to the present time, we have been led forward out of 
origins that were alternately illustrious and ignoble. A hall full of 
smoke-begrimed busts does not make the nobleman. No past life 
has been lived to lend us glory, and that which has existed before 
us is not ours; the soul alone renders us noble, and it may rise 
superior to Fortune out of any earlier condition, no matter what 
that condition has been.[3]
  Suppose, then, that you were not that Roman knight, but a 
freedman, you might nevertheless by your own efforts come to be 
the only free man amid a throng of gentlemen. “How?” you ask. 
Simply by distinguishing between good and bad things without 
patterning your opinion from the populace. You should look, 
not to the source from which these things come, but to the goal 
towards which they tend. If there is anything that can make life 
happy, it is good on its own merits; for it cannot degenerate into 
evil.
  Where, then, lies the mistake, since all men crave the happy 
life? It is that they regard the means for producing happiness 
as happiness itself, and, while seeking happiness, they are really 
fleeing from it. For although the sum and substance of the happy 
life is unalloyed freedom from care, and though the secret of 
such freedom is unshaken confidence, yet men gather together 
194 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

that which causes worry, and, while travelling life’s treacherous 
road, not only have burdens to bear, but even draw burdens 
to themselves; hence they recede farther and farther from the 
achievement of that which they seek, and the more effort they 
expend, the more they hinder themselves and are set back. This 
is what happens when you hurry through a maze; the faster you 
go, the worse you are entangled. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Alluding to seats reserved for the knights at the theatre.
2. Plato, Theaetetus, p. 174 E.
3. Compare with the whole argument Menander, Frag. 533 Kock, ending: 
 ὂς ἂν εὖ γεγονὼς ᾖ τῇ φύσει πρὸς τἀγαθά, κἂν Αἰθίοψ ᾖ, μῆτερ, ἐστὶν 
 εὐγενής.
                   LETTER 45
        On Sophistical Argumentation
                       A

You complain that in your part of the world there is a scant sup-
ply of books. But it is quality, rather than quantity, that matters; 
a limited list of reading benefits; a varied assortment serves only 
for delight. He who would arrive at the appointed end must fol-
low a single road and not wander through many ways. What you 
suggest is not travelling; it is mere tramping.
  “But,” you say, “I should rather have you give me advice than 
books.” Still, I am ready to send you all the books I have, to ransack 
the whole storehouse. If it were possible, I should join you there 
myself; and were it not for the hope that you will soon complete 
your term of office, I should have imposed upon myself this old 
man’s journey; no Scylla or Charybdis or their storied straits could 
have frightened me away. I should not only have crossed over, but 
should have been willing to swim over those waters, provided 
that I could greet you and judge in your presence how much you 
had grown in spirit.
  Your desire, however, that I should dispatch to you my own 
writings does not make me think myself learned, any more than 
a request for my picture would flatter my beauty. I know that it is 
due to your charity rather than to your judgment. And even if it 
is the result of judgment, it was charity that forced the judgment 
upon you.
196 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  But whatever the quality of my works may be, read them as if 
I were still seeking, and were not aware of, the truth, and were 
seeking it obstinately, too. For I have sold myself to no man; I 
bear the name of no master. I give much credit to the judgment of 
great men; but I claim something also for my own. For these men, 
too, have left to us, not positive discoveries, but problems whose 
solution is still to be sought. They might perhaps have discovered 
the essentials, had they not sought the superfluous also.
  They lost much time in quibbling about words and in sophistical 
argumentation; all that sort of thing exercises the wit to no 
purpose. We tie knots and bind up words in double meanings, 
and then try to untie them.
  Have we leisure enough for this? Do we already know how 
to live, or die? We should rather proceed with our whole souls 
towards the point where it is our duty to take heed lest things, as 
well as words, deceive us.
  Why, pray, do you discriminate between similar words, when 
nobody is ever deceived by them except during the discussion? 
It is things that lead us astray: it is between things that you must 
discriminate. We embrace evil instead of good; we pray for 
something opposite to that which we have prayed for in the past. 
Our prayers clash with our prayers, our plans with our plans.
  How closely flattery resembles friendship! It not only apes 
friendship, but outdoes it, passing it in the race; with wide-open 
and indulgent ears it is welcomed and sinks to the depths of the 
heart, and it is pleasing precisely wherein it does harm. Show me 
how I may be able to see through this resemblance! An enemy 
comes to me full of compliments, in the guise of a friend. Vices 
creep into our hearts under the name of virtues, rashness lurks 
beneath the appellation of bravery, moderation is called slug-
gishness, and the coward is regarded as prudent; there is great 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 197

danger if we go astray in these matters. So stamp them with 
special labels.
  Then, too, the man who is asked whether he has horns on 
his head[1] is not such a fool as to feel for them on his fore-
head, nor again so silly or dense that you can persuade him by 
means of argumentation, no matter how subtle, that he does not 
know the facts. Such quibbles are just as harmlessly deceptive 
as the juggler’s cup and dice, in which it is the very trickery that 
pleases me. But show me how the trick is done, and I have lost 
my interest therein. And I hold the same opinion about these 
tricky word-plays; for by what other name can one call such 
sophistries? Not to know them does no harm, and mastering 
them does no good.
  At any rate, if you wish to sift doubtful meanings of this kind, 
teach us that the happy man is not he whom the crowd deems 
happy, namely, he into whose coffers mighty sums have flowed, 
but he whose possessions are all in his soul, who is upright and 
exalted, who spurns inconstancy, who sees no man with whom 
he wishes to change places, who rates men only at their value as 
men, who takes Nature for his teacher, conforming to her laws 
and living as she commands, whom no violence can deprive of his 
possessions, who turns evil into good, is unerring in judgment, 
unshaken, unafraid, who may be moved by force but never moved 
to distraction, whom Fortune when she hurls at him with all her 
might the deadliest missile in her armoury, may graze, though 
rarely, but never wound. For Fortune’s other missiles, with which 
she vanquishes mankind in general, rebound from such a one, 
like hail which rattles on the roof with no harm to the dweller 
therein, and then melts away.
  Why do you bore me with that which you yourself call the 
“liar fallacy,”[2] about which so many books have been written? 
Come now, suppose that my whole life is a lie; prove that to be 
198 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

wrong and, if you are sharp enough, bring that back to the truth. 
At present it holds things to be essential of which the greater part 
is superfluous. And even that which is not superfluous is of no 
significance in respect to its power of making one fortunate and 
blest. For if a thing be necessary, it does not follow that it is a good. 
Else we degrade the meaning of “good,” if we apply that name to 
bread and barley-porridge and other commodities without which 
we cannot live.
  The good must in every case be necessary; but that which is 
necessary is not in every case a good, since certain very paltry 
things are indeed necessary. No one is to such an extent ignorant 
of the noble meaning of the word “good,” as to debase it to the 
level of these humdrum utilities.
  What, then? Shall you not rather transfer your efforts to making 
it clear to all men that the search for the superfluous means a 
great outlay of time, and that many have gone through life merely 
accumulating the instruments of life? Consider individuals, 
survey men in general; there is none whose life does not look 
forward to the morrow.
  “What harm is there in this,” you ask? Infinite harm; for such 
persons do not live, but are preparing to live. They postpone 
everything. Even if we paid strict attention, life would soon get 
ahead of us; but as we are now, life finds us lingering and passes 
us by as if it belonged to another, and though it ends on the final 
day, it perishes every day.
  But I must not exceed the bounds of a letter, which ought not 
to fill the reader’s left hand.[3] So I shall postpone to another day 
our case against the hair-splitters, those over-subtle fellows who 
make argumentation supreme instead of subordinate. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Cf. Gellius, xviii. 2. 9 quod non perdidisti, habes; cornua non perdidisti; 
 habes igitur cornua; cf. also Seneca, Ep. xlviii.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    199

2. e.g. Gellius, xviii. 2. 10 cum mentior et mentiri me dico, mentior an 
  verum dico?
3. A book was unrolled with the right hand; the reader gathered up the part 
  already perused with the left hand. Nearly all books at this time were 
  papyrus rolls, as were letters of any great length.
                    LETTER 46
          On a New Book by Lucilius
                        A

I received the book of yours which you promised me. I opened 
it hastily with the idea of glancing over it at leisure; for I meant 
only to taste the volume. But by its own charm the book coaxed 
me into traversing it more at length. You may understand from 
this fact how eloquent it was; for it seemed to be written in the 
smooth style,[1] and yet did not resemble your handiwork or mine, 
but at first sight might have been ascribed to Titus Livius or to 
Epicurus. Moreover, I was so impressed and carried along by its 
charm that I finished it without any postponement. The sunlight 
called to me, hunger warned, and clouds were lowering; but I 
absorbed the book from beginning to end.
  I was not merely pleased; I rejoiced. So full of wit and spirit 
it was! I should have added “force,” had the book contained 
moments of repose, or had it risen to energy only at intervals. But 
I found that there was no burst of force, but an even flow, a style 
that was vigorous and chaste. Nevertheless I noticed from time to 
time your sweetness, and here and there that mildness of yours. 
Your style is lofty and noble; I want you to keep to this manner 
and this direction. Your subject also contributed something; for 
this reason you should choose productive topics, which will lay 
hold of the mind and arouse it.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 201

  I shall discuss the book more fully after a second perusal; mean-
time, my judgment is somewhat unsettled, just as if I had heard 
it read aloud, and had not read it myself. You must allow me to 
examine it also. You need not be afraid; you shall hear the truth. 
Lucky fellow, to offer a man no opportunity to tell you lies at such 
long range! Unless perhaps, even now, when excuses for lying are 
taken away, custom serves as an excuse for our telling each other 
lies! Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Possibly levis in the sense of light, referring to size.

                   LETTER 47
             On Master and Slave
                       A

I am glad to learn, through those who come from you, that you live 
on friendly terms with your slaves. This befits a sensible and well-
educated man like yourself. “They are slaves,” people declare.[1] 
Nay, rather they are men. “Slaves!” No, comrades. “Slaves!” No, 
they are unpretentious friends. “Slaves!” No, they are our fellow-
slaves, if one reflects that Fortune has equal rights over slaves and 
free men alike.
  That is why I smile at those who think it degrading for a man 
to dine with his slave. But why should they think it degrading? It 
is only because purse-proud etiquette surrounds a householder 
at his dinner with a mob of standing slaves. The master eats more 
than he can hold, and with monstrous greed loads his belly until 
it is stretched and at length ceases to do the work of a belly; so 
that he is at greater pains to discharge all the food than he was 
to stuff it down.
  All this time the poor slaves may not move their lips, even to 
speak. The slightest murmur is repressed by the rod; even a chance 
sound—a cough, a sneeze, or a hiccup—is visited with the lash. 
There is a grievous penalty for the slightest breach of silence. All 
night long they must stand about, hungry and dumb.

Artwork opposite by Roni Setiawan
204 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  The result of it all is that these slaves, who may not talk in their 
master’s presence, talk about their master. But the slaves of former 
days, who were permitted to converse not only in their master’s 
presence, but actually with him, whose mouths were not stitched 
up tight, were ready to bare their necks for their master, to bring 
upon their own heads any danger that threatened him; they spoke 
at the feast, but kept silence during torture.
  Finally, the saying, in allusion to this same high-handed 
treatment, becomes current: “As many enemies as you have 
slaves.” They are not enemies when we acquire them; we make 
them enemies.
  I shall pass over other cruel and inhuman conduct towards 
them; for we maltreat them, not as if they were men, but as if they 
were beasts of burden. When we recline at a banquet, one slave 
mops up the disgorged food, another crouches beneath the table 
and gathers up the left-overs of the tipsy guests.
  Another carves the priceless game birds; with unerring strokes 
and skilled hand he cuts choice morsels along the breast or the 
rump. Hapless fellow, to live only for the purpose of cutting fat 
capons correctly—unless, indeed, the other man is still more 
unhappy than he, who teaches this art for pleasure’s sake, rather 
than he who learns it because he must. 
  Another, who serves the wine, must dress like a woman and 
wrestle with his advancing years; he cannot get away from his 
boyhood; he is dragged back to it; and though he has already 
acquired a soldier’s figure, he is kept beardless by having his 
hair smoothed away or plucked out by the roots, and he must 
remain awake throughout the night, dividing his time between 
his master’s drunkenness and his lust; in the chamber he must be 
a man, at the feast a boy.[2]
  Another, whose duty it is to put a valuation on the guests, must 
stick to his task, poor fellow, and watch to see whose flattery and 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 205

whose immodesty, whether of appetite or of language, is to get 
them an invitation for tomorrow. Think also of the poor purveyors 
of food, who note their masters’ tastes with delicate skill, who 
know what special flavours will sharpen their appetite, what will 
please their eyes, what new combinations will rouse their cloyed 
stomachs, what food will excite their loathing through sheer 
satiety, and what will stir them to hunger on that particular day. 
With slaves like these the master cannot bear to dine; he would 
think it beneath his dignity to associate with his slave at the same 
table! Heaven forfend!
  But how many masters is he creating in these very men!
  I have seen standing in the line, before the door of Callistus, 
the former master,[3] of Callistus; I have seen the master himself 
shut out while others were welcomed—the master who once fas-
tened the “For Sale” ticket on Callistus and put him in the market 
along with the good-for-nothing slaves. But he has been paid off 
by that slave who was shuffled into the first lot of those on whom 
the crier practices his lungs; the slave, too, in his turn has cut his 
name from the list and in his turn has adjudged him unfit to enter 
his house. The master sold Callistus, but how much has Callistus 
made his master pay for!
  Kindly remember that he whom you call your slave sprang 
from the same stock, is smiled upon by the same skies, and on 
equal terms with yourself breathes, lives, and dies. It is just as 
possible for you to see in him a free-born man as for him to 
see in you a slave. As a result of the massacres in Marius’s[4] day, 
many a man of distinguished birth, who was taking the first steps 
toward senatorial rank by service in the army, was humbled by 
fortune, one becoming a shepherd, another a caretaker of a 
country cottage. Despise, then, if you dare, those to whose estate 
you may at any time descend, even when you are despising them.
206 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  I do not wish to involve myself in too large a question, and to 
discuss the treatment of slaves, towards whom we Romans are 
excessively haughty, cruel, and insulting. But this is the kernel of 
my advice: Treat your inferiors as you would be treated by your 
betters. And as often as you reflect how much power you have 
over a slave, remember that your master has just as much power 
over you.
  “But I have no master,” you say. You are still young; perhaps 
you will have one. Do you not know at what age Hecuba entered 
captivity, or Croesus, or the mother of Darius, or Plato, or 
Diogenes?[5]
  Associate with your slave on kindly, even on affable, terms; let 
him talk with you, plan with you, live with you. I know that at 
this point all the exquisites will cry out against me in a body; they 
will say: “There is nothing more debasing, more disgraceful, than 
this.” But these are the very persons whom I sometimes surprise 
kissing the hands of other men’s slaves.
  Do you not see even this, how our ancestors removed from 
masters everything invidious, and from slaves everything 
insulting? They called the master “father of the household,” and 
the slaves “members of the household,” a custom which still holds 
in the mime. They established a holiday on which masters and 
slaves should eat together—not as the only day for this custom, 
but as obligatory on that day in any case. They allowed the slaves 
to attain honours in the household and to pronounce judgment;[6] 
they held that a household was a miniature commonwealth.
  “Do you mean to say,” comes the retort, “that I must seat all my 
slaves at my own table?” No, not any more than that you should 
invite all free men to it. You are mistaken if you think that I would 
bar from my table certain slaves whose duties are more humble, 
as, for example, yonder muleteer or yonder herdsman; I propose 
to value them according to their character, and not according 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 207

to their duties. Each man acquires his character for himself, but 
accident assigns his duties. Invite some to your table because they 
deserve the honor, and others that they may come to deserve it. 
For if there is any slavish quality in them as the result of their 
low associations, it will be shaken off by intercourse with men of 
gentler breeding.
  You need not, my dear Lucilius, hunt for friends only in the 
forum or in the Senate-house; if you are careful and attentive, you 
will find them at home also. Good material often stands idle for 
want of an artist; make the experiment, and you will find it so. As 
he is a fool who, when purchasing a horse, does not consider the 
animal’s points, but merely his saddle and bridle; so he is doubly 
a fool who values a man from his clothes or from his rank, which 
indeed is only a robe that clothes us.
  “He is a slave.” His soul, however, may be that of a freeman. 
“He is a slave.” But shall that stand in his way? Show me a man 
who is not a slave; one is a slave to lust, another to greed, another 
to ambition, and all men are slaves to fear. I will name you an 
ex-consul who is slave to an old hag, a millionaire who is slave 
to a serving-maid; I will show you youths of the noblest birth in 
serfdom to pantomime players! No servitude is more disgraceful 
than that which is self-imposed.
  You should therefore not be deterred by these finicky persons 
from showing yourself to your slaves as an affable person and 
not proudly superior to them; they ought to respect you rather 
than fear you.
  Some may maintain that I am now offering the liberty-cap to 
slaves in general and toppling down lords from their high estate, 
because I bid slaves respect their masters instead of fearing them. 
They say: “This is what he plainly means: slaves are to pay respect 
as if they were clients or early-morning callers!” Anyone who 
holds this opinion forgets that what is enough for a god cannot 
208 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

be too little for a master. Respect means love, and love and fear 
cannot be mingled.
  So I hold that you are entirely right in not wishing to be feared 
by your slaves, and in lashing them merely with the tongue; only 
dumb animals need the thong.
  That which annoys us does not necessarily injure us; but we 
are driven into wild rage by our luxurious lives, so that whatever 
does not answer our whims arouses our anger.
  We don the temper of kings. For they, too, forgetful alike of 
their own strength and of other men’s weakness, grow white-hot 
with rage, as if they had received an injury, when they are entirely 
protected from danger of such injury by their exalted station. 
They are not unaware that this is true, but by finding fault they 
seize upon opportunities to do harm; they insist that they have 
received injuries, in order that they may inflict them.
  I do not wish to delay you longer; for you need no exhortation. 
This, among other things, is a mark of good character: it forms 
its own judgments and abides by them; but badness is fickle 
and frequently changing, not for the better, but for something 
different. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Much of the following is quoted by Macrobius, Sat. i. 11. 7 ff., in the 
 passage beginning vis tu cogitare eos, quos ios tuum vocas, isdem seminibus 
 ortos eodem frui caelo, etc.
2. Glabri,  delicati, or exoleti were favourite slaves, kept artifically youthful 
 by Romans of the more dissolute class. Cf. Catullus, lxi. 142, and Seneca, 
 De Brevitate Vitae, 12. 5 (a passage closely resembling the description 
 given above by Seneca), where the master prides himself upon the elegant 
 appearance and graceful gestures of these favourites.
3. The master of Callistus, before he became the favourite of Caligula, is 
 unknown.
4. There is some doubt whether we should not read Variana, as Lipsius 
 suggests. This method of qualifying for senator suits the Empire better 
 than the Republic. Variana would refer to the defeat of Varus in Germany, 
 A.D. 9.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius   209

5. Plato was about forty years old when he visited Sicily, whence he was 
  afterwards deported by Dionysius the Elder. He was sold into slavery at 
  Aegina and ransomed by a man from Cyrene. Diogenes, while travelling 
  from Athens to Aegina, is said to have been captured by pirates and sold 
  in Crete, where he was purchased by a certain Corinthian and given his 
  freedom.
6. i.e., as the praetor himself was normally accustomed to do.
                    LETTER 48
On Quibbling as Unworthy of the Philosopher
                        A

In answer to the letter which you wrote me while travelling—a 
letter as long as the journey itself—I shall reply later. I ought to 
go into retirement, and consider what sort of advice I should give 
you. For you yourself, who consult me, also reflected for a long 
time whether to do so; how much more, then, should I myself 
reflect, since more deliberation is necessary in settling than in 
propounding a problem! And this is particularly true when one 
thing is advantageous to you and another to me. Am I speaking 
again in the guise of an Epicurean?[1]
  But the fact is, the same thing is advantageous to me which is 
advantageous to you; for I am not your friend unless whatever is 
at issue concerning you is my concern also. Friendship produces 
between us a partnership in all our interests. There is no such thing 
as good or bad fortune for the individual; we live in common. 
And no one can live happily who has regard to himself alone and 
transforms everything into a question of his own utility; you must 
live for your neighbour, if you would live for yourself.
  This fellowship, maintained with scrupulous care, which 
makes us mingle as men with our fellow-men and holds that 
the human race have certain rights in common, is also of great 
help in cherishing the more intimate fellowship which is based 
on friendship, concerning which I began to speak above. For he 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 211

that has much in common with a fellow-man will have all things 
in common with a friend.
  And on this point, my excellent Lucilius, I should like to have 
those subtle dialecticians of yours advise me how I ought to help 
a friend, or how a fellow man, rather than tell me in how many 
ways the word “friend” is used, and how many meanings the word 
“man” possesses. Lo, Wisdom and Folly are taking opposite sides. 
Which shall I join? Which party would you have me follow? On 
that side, “man” is the equivalent of “friend”; on the other side, 
“friend” is not the equivalent of “man.” The one wants a friend for 
his own advantage; the other wants to make himself an advantage 
to his friend.[2] What you have to offer me is nothing but distortion 
of words and splitting of syllables.
  It is clear that unless I can devise some very tricky premisses 
and by false deductions tack on to them a fallacy which springs 
from the truth, I shall not be able to distinguish between what 
is desirable and what is to be avoided! I am ashamed! Old men 
as we are, dealing with a problem so serious, we make play of it!
  “‘Mouse’ is a syllable.[3] Now a mouse eats its cheese; therefore, 
a syllable eats cheese.” Suppose now that I cannot solve this 
problem; see what peril hangs over my head as a result of such 
ignorance! What a scrape I shall be in! Without doubt I must 
beware, or some day I shall be catching syllables in a mousetrap, 
or, if I grow careless, a book may devour my cheese! Unless, 
perhaps, the following syllogism is shrewder still: “‘Mouse’ is a 
syllable. Now a syllable does not eat cheese. Therefore a mouse 
does not eat cheese.”
  What childish nonsense! Do we knit our brows over this sort of 
problem? Do we let our beards grow long for this reason? Is this 
the matter which we teach with sour and pale faces?
  Would you really know what philosophy offers to humanity? 
Philosophy offers counsel. Death calls away one man, and poverty 
212 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

chafes another; a third is worried either by his neighbour’s wealth 
or by his own. So-and-so is afraid of bad luck; another desires to 
get away from his own good fortune. Some are ill-treated by men, 
others by the gods.
  Why, then, do you frame for me such games as these? It is 
no occasion for jest; you are retained as counsel for unhappy 
mankind. You have promised to help those in peril by sea, those in 
captivity, the sick and the needy, and those whose heads are under 
the poised axe. Whither are you straying? What are you doing?
  This friend, in whose company you are jesting, is in fear. Help 
him, and take the noose from about his neck. Men are stretching 
out imploring hands to you on all sides; lives ruined and in 
danger of ruin are begging for some assistance; men’s hopes, 
men’s resources, depend upon you. They ask that you deliver them 
from all their restlessness, that you reveal to them, scattered and 
wandering as they are, the clear light of truth.
  Tell them what nature has made necessary, and what 
superfluous; tell them how simple are the laws that she has laid 
down, how pleasant and unimpeded life is for those who follow 
these laws, but how bitter and perplexed it is for those who have 
put their trust in opinion rather than in nature.
  I should deem your games of logic to be of some avail in 
relieving men’s burdens, if you could first show me what part 
of these burdens they will relieve. What among these games of 
yours banishes lust? Or controls it? Would that I could say that 
they were merely of no profit! They are positively harmful. I can 
make it perfectly clear to you whenever you wish, that a noble 
spirit when involved in such subtleties is impaired and weakened.
  I am ashamed to say what weapons they supply to men who 
are destined to go to war with fortune, and how poorly they 
equip them! Is this the path to the greatest good? Is philosophy 
to proceed by such claptrap[4] and by quibbles which would be 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 213

a disgrace and a reproach even for expounders[5] of the law? For 
what else is it that you men are doing, when you deliberately 
ensnare the person to whom you are putting questions, than 
making it appear that the man has lost his case on a technical 
error?[6] But just as the judge can reinstate those who have lost 
a suit in this way, so philosophy has reinstated these victims of 
quibbling to their former condition.
  Why do you men abandon your mighty promises, and, after 
having assured me in high-sounding language that you will 
permit the glitter of gold to dazzle my eyesight no more than the 
gleam of the sword, and that I shall, with mighty steadfastness, 
spurn both that which all men crave and that which all men fear, 
why do you descend to the ABC’s of scholastic pedants? What is 
your answer?

     Is this the path to heaven?[7]

  For that is exactly what philosophy promises to me, that I shall 
be made equal to God. For this I have been summoned, for this 
purpose have I come. Philosophy, keep your promise!
  Therefore, my dear Lucilius, withdraw yourself as far as possible 
from these exceptions and objections of so-called philosophers. 
Frankness, and simplicity beseem true goodness. Even if there 
were many years left to you, you would have had to spend them 
frugally in order to have enough for the necessary things; but 
as it is, when your time is so scant, what madness it is to learn 
superfluous things! Farewell.

Footnotes
1. The Epicureans, who reduced all goods to “utilities,” could not regard a 
 friend’s advantage as identical to one’s own advantage. And yet they laid 
 great stress upon friendship as one of the chief sources of pleasure. For 
 an attempt to reconcile these two positions see Cicero, De Finibus, i. 65 ff. 
 Seneca has inadvertantly used a phrase that implies a difference between a 
 friend’s interest and one’s own. This leads him to reassert the Stoic view of 
 friendship, which adopted as its motto κοινὰ τὰ τῶν φίλων.
214   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

2. The sides are given in the reverse order in the two clauses: to the Stoic the 
  terms “friend” and “man” are co-extensive; he is the friend of everybody, 
  and his motive in friendship is to be of service; the Epicurean, however, 
  narrows the definition of “friend” and regards him merely as an instrument 
  to his own happiness.
3. In this paragraph Seneca exposes the folly of trying to prove a truth by 
  means of logical tricks, and offers a caricature of those which were current 
  among the philosophers whom he derides.
4. Literally, “or if or if not,” words constantly employed by the logicians in 
  legal instruments. For the latter cf. Cicero, Pro Caecina, 23. 65 tum illud, 
  quod dicitur, “sive nive” irrident, tum aucupia verborum et litterarum 
  tendiculas in invidiam vocant.
5. Literally, “to those who sit studying the praetor’s edicts.” Thealbum  is the 
  bulletin-board, on which the edicts of the praetor were posted, giving the 
  formulae and stipulations for legal processes of various kinds.
6. In certain actions the praetor appointed a judge and established a formula, 
  indicating the plaintiff’s claim and the judge’s duty. If the statement was 
  false, or the claim excessive, the plaintiff lost his case; under certain 
  conditions (see last sentence of Seneca § 11) the defendant could claim 
  annulment of the formula and have the case tried again. Such cases were 
  not lost on their merits, and for that reason the lawyer who purposely took 
  such an advantage was doing a contemptible thing.
7. Vergil, Aeneid, ix. 641.
                   LETTER 49
            On the Shortness of Life
                       A

    [If interested, a free audiobook version of this letter 
      can be found at this web address: tim.blog/49] 

A man is indeed lazy and careless, my dear Lucilius, if he is 
reminded of a friend only by seeing some landscape which stirs 
the memory; and yet there are times when the old familiar haunts 
stir up a sense of loss that has been stored away in the soul, not 
bringing back dead memories, but rousing them from their dor-
mant state, just as the sight of a lost friend’s favourite slave, or his 
cloak, or his house, renews the mourner’s grief, even though it 
has been softened by time.
  Now, lo and behold, Campania, and especially Naples and 
your beloved Pompeii,[1] struck me, when I viewed them, with 
a wonderfully fresh sense of longing for you. You stand in full 
view before my eyes. I am on the point of parting from you. I see 
you choking down your tears and resisting without success the 
emotions that well up at the very moment when you try to check 
them. I seem to have lost you but a moment ago. For what is not 
“but a moment ago” when one begins to use the memory?
  It was but a moment ago that I sat, as a lad, in the school of the 
philosopher Sotion,[2] but a moment ago that I began to plead in 
the courts, but a moment ago that I lost the desire to plead, but a 
216 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

moment ago that I lost the ability. Infinitely swift is the flight of 
time, as those see more clearly who are looking backwards. For 
when we are intent on the present, we do not notice it, so gentle 
is the passage of time’s headlong flight.
  Do you ask the reason for this? All past time is in the same place; 
it all presents the same aspect to us, it lies together. Everything 
slips into the same abyss. Besides, an event which in its entirety 
is of brief compass cannot contain long intervals. The time which 
we spend in living is but a point, nay, even less than a point. But 
this point of time, infinitesimal as it is, nature has mocked by 
making it seem outwardly of longer duration; she has taken one 
portion thereof and made it infancy, another childhood, another 
youth, another the gradual slope, so to speak, from youth to old 
age, and old age itself is still another. How many steps for how 
short a climb!
  It was but a moment ago that I saw you off on your journey; and 
yet this “moment ago” makes up a goodly share of our existence, 
which is so brief, we should reflect, that it will soon come to an 
end altogether. In other years time did not seem to me to go so 
swiftly; now, it seems fast beyond belief, perhaps, because I feel 
that the finish-line is moving closer to me, or it may be that I have 
begun to take heed and reckon up my losses.
  For this reason I am all the more angry that some men claim 
the major portion of this time for superfluous things—time 
which, no matter how carefully it is guarded, cannot suffice even 
for necessary things. Cicero[3] declared that if the number of his 
days were doubled, he should not have time to read the lyric poets.
[4] And you may rate the dialecticians in the same class; but they 
are foolish in a more melancholy way. The lyric poets are avowedly 
frivolous; but the dialecticians believe that they are themselves 
engaged upon serious business.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 217

  I do not deny that one must cast a glance at dialectic; but it 
ought to be a mere glance, a sort of greeting from the threshold, 
merely that one may not be deceived, or judge these pursuits to 
contain any hidden matters of great worth.
  Why do you torment yourself and lose weight over some 
problem which it is more clever to have scorned than to solve? 
When a soldier is undisturbed and travelling at his ease, he can 
hunt for trifles along his way; but when the enemy is closing 
in on the rear, and a command is given to quicken the pace, 
necessity makes him throw away everything which he picked up 
in moments of peace and leisure.
  I have no time to investigate disputed inflections of words, or 
to try my cunning upon them.

     Behold the gathering clans, the fast-shut gates,
     And weapons whetted ready for the war.[5]

I need a stout heart to hear without flinching this din of battle 
which sounds round about.
  And all would rightly think me mad if, when graybeards 
and women were heaping up rocks for the fortifications, when 
the armour-clad youths inside the gates were awaiting, or even 
demanding, the order for a sally, when the spears of the foemen 
were quivering in our gates and the very ground was rocking 
with mines and subterranean passages—I say, they would rightly 
think me mad if I were to sit idle, putting such petty posers as 
this: “What you have not lost, you have. But you have not lost any 
horns. Therefore, you have horns,”[6] or other tricks constructed 
after the model of this piece of sheer silliness.
  And yet I may well seem in your eyes no less mad, if I spend 
my energies on that sort of thing; for even now I am in a state 
of siege. And yet, in the former case it would be merely a peril 
from the outside that threatened me, and a wall that sundered 
218 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

me from the foe; as it is now, death-dealing perils are in my very 
presence. I have no time for such nonsense; a mighty undertaking 
is on my hands. What am I to do? Death is on my trail, and life 
is fleeting away; teach me something with which to face these 
troubles. Bring it to pass that I shall cease trying to escape from 
death, and that life may cease to escape from me. Give me courage 
to meet hardships; make me calm in the face of the unavoidable. 
Relax the straitened limits of the time which is allotted me. Show 
me that the good in life does not depend upon life’s length, but 
upon the use we make of it; also, that it is possible, or rather usual, 
for a man who has lived long to have lived too little. Say to me 
when I lie down to sleep: “You may not wake again!” And when 
I have waked: “You may not go to sleep again!” Say to me when 
I go forth from my house: “You may not return!” And when I 
return: “You may never go forth again!”
  You are mistaken if you think that only on an ocean voyage there 
is a very slight space[7] between life and death. No, the distance 
between is just as narrow everywhere. It is not everywhere that 
death shows himself so near at hand; yet everywhere he is as near 
at hand.
  Rid me of these shadowy terrors; then you will more easily 
deliver to me the instruction for which I have prepared myself. 
At our birth nature made us teachable, and gave us reason, not 
perfect, but capable of being perfected.
  Discuss for me justice, duty, thrift, and that twofold purity, 
both the purity which abstains from another’s person, and that 
which takes care of one’s own self. If you will only refuse to lead 
me along by-paths, I shall more easily reach the goal at which I 
am aiming. For, as the tragic poet[8] says:
  The language of truth is simple.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    219

   We should not, therefore, make that language intricate; since 
there is nothing less fitting for a soul of great endeavour than such 
crafty cleverness. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Probably the birthplace of Lucilius.
2. The Pythagorean. For his views on vegetarianism, and their influence on 
  Seneca, see Ep. cviii. 17 ff.
3. Source unknown; perhaps, as Hense thinks, from the Hortensius.
4. An intentional equivocation on the part of Cicero, who intimates that he 
  will “lose no time” in reading them.
5. Vergil, Aeneid, viii. 385 f.
6. An example of syllogistic nonsense, quoted also by Gellius, xviii. 2. 9. See 
  also Ep. xlv. 8.
7. i.e., the timbers of the ship. Compare the same figure in Ep. xxx. 2.
8. Euripides, Phoenissae, 469 ἁπλοῦς ὁ μῦθος τῆς ἀληθείας ἔφυ.
                    LETTER 50
        On Our Blindness and Its Cure
                        A

I received your letter many months after you had posted it; 
accordingly, I thought it useless to ask the carrier what you were 
busied with. He must have a particularly good memory if he can 
remember that! But I hope by this time you are living in such 
a way that I can be sure what it is you are busied with, no mat-
ter where you may be. For what else are you busied with except 
improving yourself every day, laying aside some error, and coming 
to understand that the faults which you attribute to circumstances 
are in yourself? We are indeed apt to ascribe certain faults to the 
place or to the time; but those faults will follow us, no matter how 
we change our place.
  You know Harpaste, my wife’s female clown; she has remained 
in my house, a burden incurred from a legacy. I particularly 
disapprove of these freaks; whenever I wish to enjoy the quips of a 
clown, I am not compelled to hunt far; I can laugh at myself. Now 
this clown suddenly became blind. The story sounds incredible, 
but I assure you that it is true: she does not know that she is blind. 
She keeps asking her attendant to change her quarters; she says 
that her apartments are too dark.
  You can see clearly that that which makes us smile in the case 
of Harpaste happens to all the rest of us; nobody understands 
that he is himself greedy, or that he is covetous. Yet the blind ask 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 221

for a guide, while we wander without one, saying: “I am not self-
seeking; but one cannot live at Rome in any other way. I am not 
extravagant, but mere living in the city demands a great outlay. It 
is not my fault that I have a choleric disposition, or that I have not 
settled down to any definite scheme of life; it is due to my youth.”
  Why do we deceive ourselves? The evil that afflicts us is not 
external, it is within us, situated in our very vitals; for that reason 
we attain soundness with all the more difficulty, because we do 
not know that we are diseased.
  Suppose that we have begun the cure; when shall we throw 
off all these diseases, with all their virulence? At present, we do 
not even consult the physician, whose work would be easier if 
he were called in when the complaint was in its early stages. The 
tender and the inexperienced minds would follow his advice if 
he pointed out the right way.
  No man finds it difficult to return to nature, except the man 
who has deserted nature. We blush to receive instruction in sound 
sense; but, by Heaven, if we think it base to seek a teacher of this 
art, we should also abandon any hope that so great a good could 
be instilled into us by mere chance.
  No, we must work. To tell the truth, even the work is not great, 
if only, as I said, we begin to mould and reconstruct our souls 
before they are hardened by sin. But I do not despair even of a 
hardened sinner.
  There is nothing that will not surrender to persistent treat-
ment, to concentrated and careful attention; however much the 
timber may be bent, you can make it straight again. Heat unbends 
curved beams, and wood that grew naturally in another shape is 
fashioned artificially according to our needs. How much more 
easily does the soul permit itself to be shaped, pliable as it is and 
more yielding than any liquid! For what else is the soul than air 
222 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

in a certain state? And you see that air is more adaptable than any 
other matter, in proportion as it is rarer than any other.
  There is nothing, Lucilius, to hinder you from entertaining 
good hopes about us, just because we are even now in the grip 
of evil, or because we have long been possessed thereby. There is 
no man to whom a good mind comes before an evil one. It is the 
evil mind that gets first hold on all of us. Learning virtue means 
unlearning vice.
  We should therefore proceed to the task of freeing ourselves 
from faults with all the more courage because, when once 
committed to us, the good is an everlasting possession; virtue 
is not unlearned. For opposites find difficulty in clinging where 
they do not belong, therefore they can be driven out and hustled 
away; but qualities that come to a place which is rightfully theirs 
abide faithfully. Virtue is according to nature; vice is opposed to 
it and hostile.
  But although virtues, when admitted, cannot depart and are 
easy to guard, yet the first steps in the approach to them are 
toilsome, because it is characteristic of a weak and diseased mind 
to fear that which is unfamiliar. The mind must, therefore, be 
forced to make a beginning; from then on, the medicine is not 
bitter; for just as soon as it is curing us it begins to give pleasure. 
One enjoys other cures only after health is restored, but a draught 
of philosophy is at the same moment wholesome and pleasant. 
Farewell.
                   LETTER 51
             On Baiae and Morals
                       A

Every man does the best he can, my dear Lucilius! You over there 
have Etna,[1] that lofty and most celebrated mountain of Sicily; 
(although I cannot make out why Messala—or was it Valgius? 
for I have been reading in both—has called it “unique,” inasmuch 
as many regions belch forth fire, not merely the lofty ones where 
the phenomenon is more frequent—presumably because fire rises 
to the greatest possible height—but low-lying places also.) As for 
myself, I do the best I can; I have had to be satisfied with Baiae;[2] 
and I left it the day after I reached it; for Baiae is a place to be 
avoided, because, though it has certain natural advantages, luxury 
has claimed it for her own exclusive resort.
  “What then,” you say, “should any place be singled out as an 
object of aversion?” Not at all. But just as, to the wise and upright 
man, one style of clothing is more suitable than another, without 
his having an aversion for any particular colour, but because he 
thinks that some colours do not befit one who has adopted the 
simple life; so there are places also, which the wise man or he who 
is on the way toward wisdom will avoid as foreign to good morals.
  Therefore, if he is contemplating withdrawal from the world, he 
will not select Canopus[3] (although Canopus does not keep any 
man from living simply), nor Baiae either; for both places have 
begun to be resorts of vice. At Canopus luxury pampers itself to 
224 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

the utmost degree; at Baiae it is even more lax, as if the place itself 
demanded a certain amount of licence.
  We ought to select abodes which are wholesome not only for 
the body but also for the character. Just as I do not care to live in 
a place of torture, neither do I care to live in a cafe. To witness 
persons wandering drunk along the beach, the riotous revelling of 
sailing parties, the lakes a-din with choral[4] song, and all the other 
ways in which luxury, when it is, so to speak, released from the 
restraints of law not merely sins, but blazons its sins abroad—why 
must I witness all this?
  We ought to see to it that we flee to the greatest possible distance 
from provocations to vice. We should toughen our minds, and 
remove them far from the allurements of pleasure. A single winter 
relaxed Hannibal’s fibre; his pampering in Campania took the 
vigour out of that hero who had triumphed over Alpine snows. 
He conquered with his weapons, but was conquered by his vices.
  We too have a war to wage, a type of warfare in which there is 
allowed no rest or furlough. To be conquered, in the first place, 
are pleasures, which, as you see, have carried off even the sternest 
characters. If a man has once understood how great is the task 
which he has entered upon, he will see that there must be no 
dainty or effeminate conduct. What have I to do with those hot 
baths or with the sweating-room where they shut in the dry steam 
which is to drain your strength? Perspiration should flow only 
after toil.
  Suppose we do what Hannibal did—check the course of events, 
give up the war, and give over our bodies to be coddled. Every 
one would rightly blame us for our untimely sloth, a thing fraught 
with peril even for the victor, to say nothing of one who is only 
on the way to victory. And we have even less right to do this than 
those followers of the Carthaginian flag; for our danger is greater 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 225

than theirs if we slacken, and our toil is greater than theirs even 
if we press ahead.
  Fortune is fighting against me, and I shall not carry out her 
commands. I refuse to submit to the yoke; nay rather, I shake 
off the yoke that is upon me—an act which demands even 
greater courage. The soul is not to be pampered; surrendering to 
pleasure means also surrendering to pain, surrendering to toil, 
surrendering to poverty. Both ambition and anger will wish to 
have the same rights over me as pleasure, and I shall be torn 
asunder, or rather pulled to pieces, amid all these conflicting 
passions.
  I have set freedom before my eyes; and I am striving for that 
reward. And what is freedom, you ask? It means not being a slave 
to any circumstance, to any constraint, to any chance; it means 
compelling Fortune to enter the lists on equal terms. And on the 
day when I know that I have the upper hand, her power will be 
naught. When I have death in my own control, shall I take orders 
from her?
  Therefore, a man occupied with such reflections should choose 
an austere and pure dwelling-place. The spirit is weakened by 
surroundings that are too pleasant, and without a doubt one’s 
place of residence can contribute towards impairing its vigour. 
Animals whose hoofs are hardened on rough ground can travel 
any road; but when they are fattened on soft marshy meadows 
their hoofs are soon worn out. The bravest soldier comes from 
rock-ribbed regions; but the town-bred and the home-bred are 
sluggish in action. The hand which turns from the plough to the 
sword never objects to toil; but your sleek and well-dressed dandy 
quails at the first cloud of dust.
  Being trained in a rugged country strengthens the character 
and fits it for great undertakings. It was more honourable in Scipio 
to spend his exile at Liternum,[5] than at Baiae; his downfall did 
226 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

not need a setting so effeminate. Those also into whose hands 
the rising fortunes of Rome first transferred the wealth of the 
state, Gaius Marius, Gnaeus Pompey, and Caesar, did indeed 
build villas near Baiae; but they set them on the very tops of the 
mountains. This seemed more soldier-like, to look down from 
a lofty height upon lands spread far and wide below. Note the 
situation, position, and type of building which they chose; you 
will see that they were not country-places—they were camps.
  Do you suppose that Cato would ever have dwelt in a pleasure-
palace, that he might count the lewd women as they sailed past, 
the many kinds of barges painted in all sorts of colours, the roses 
which were wafted about the lake, or that he might listen to the 
nocturnal brawls of serenaders? Would he not have preferred to 
remain in the shelter of a trench thrown up by his own hands to 
serve for a single night? Would not anyone who is a man have 
his slumbers broken by a war-trumpet rather than by a chorus 
of serenaders?
  But I have been haranguing against Baiae long enough; although 
I never could harangue often enough against vice. Vice, Lucilius, 
is what I wish you to proceed against, without limit and without 
end. For it has neither limit nor end. If any vice rend your heart, 
cast it away from you; and if you cannot be rid of it in any other 
way, pluck out your heart also. Above all, drive pleasures from 
your sight. Hate them beyond all other things, for they are like 
the bandits whom the Egyptians call “lovers,”[6] who embrace us 
only to garrotte us. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Etna was of especial interest to Lucilius. Besides being a Govenor in Sicily, 
 he may have written the poem Aetna. For Seneca’s own curiosity regarding 
 the mountain compare Ep. lxxix. 5 ff.
2. Not far from Naples, and across the bay from Puteoli. It was a fashionable 
 and dissolute watering place.
3. Situated at the mouth of the westernmost branch of the Nile, and 
 proverbial in Latin literature for the laxity of its morals.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    227

4. There is considerable doubt whethersymphonia  was vocal or instrumental 
  music. The passage probably refers either to glee-singers (as in Venice 
  today) or to bands of flute-players playing part-music. Cicero Verr.(  iii. 44. 
  105) mentions them as providing entertainment at banquets.
5. See Letter lxxxvi.
6. The Egyptians used the word φηλητής in the sense of “knave” or “foot-
  pad.” The word is found in the Hecate of Callimachus. Hesychius defines 
  it as equal to κλώψ “thief.” It was pronounced in the same way as φιλητής 
  “lover,” and in late Greek was spelt in the same way.
                      Japanese: Mu.
English: Mu is best understood in context. For instance, it is found 
 in the Zen expression mushin no shin (無心の心), meaning “the 
mind without mind” or the state of “no-mindness.” This refers to a 
mind not fixed or occupied by thought or emotion and thus open to 
 everything. This concept—a prerequisite for what the West would 
     consider “flow” in sports, for instance—is widely used 
          within Japanese martial and aesthetic arts. 

                  Calligrapher: Noriko Lake
                   LETTER 52
          On Choosing Our Teachers
                       A

What is this force, Lucilius, that drags us in one direction when 
we are aiming in another, urging us on to the exact place from 
which we long to withdraw? What is it that wrestles with our 
spirit, and does not allow us to desire anything once for all? We 
veer from plan to plan. None of our wishes is free, none is unqual-
ified, none is lasting.
  “But it is the fool,” you say, “who is inconsistent; nothing suits 
him for long.” But how or when can we tear ourselves away from 
this folly? No man by himself has sufficient strength to rise above 
it; he needs a helping hand, and some one to extricate him.
  Epicurus[1] remarks that certain men have worked their way 
to the truth without any one’s assistance, carving out their own 
passage. And he gives special praise to these, for their impulse 
has come from within, and they have forged to the front by 
themselves. Again, he says, there are others who need outside 
help, who will not proceed unless someone leads the way, but who 
will follow faithfully. Of these, he says, Metrodorus was one; this 
type of man is also excellent, but belongs to the second grade. We 
ourselves are not of that first class, either; we shall be well treated 
if we are admitted into the second. Nor need you despise a man 
who can gain salvation only with the assistance of another; the 
will to be saved means a great deal, too.
230 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  You will find still another class of man—and a class not to 
be despised—who can be forced and driven into righteousness, 
who do not need a guide as much as they require someone to 
encourage and, as it were, to force them along. This is the third 
variety. If you ask me for a man of this pattern also, Epicurus 
tells us that Hermarchus was such. And of the two last-named 
classes, he is more ready to congratulate the one,[2] but he feels 
more respect for the other; for although both reached the same 
goal, it is a greater credit to have brought about the same result 
with the more difficult material upon which to work.
  Suppose that two buildings have been erected, unlike as to their 
foundations, but equal in height and in grandeur. One is built on 
faultless ground, and the process of erection goes right ahead. 
In the other case, the foundations have exhausted the building 
materials, for they have been sunk into soft and shifting ground 
and much labour has been wasted in reaching the solid rock. 
As one looks at both of them, one sees clearly what progress the 
former has made but the larger and more difficult part of the 
latter is hidden.
  So with men’s dispositions; some are pliable and easy to 
manage, but others have to be laboriously wrought out by hand, 
so to speak, and are wholly employed in the making of their own 
foundations. I should accordingly deem more fortunate the man 
who has never had any trouble with himself; but the other, I feel, 
has deserved better of himself, who has won a victory over the 
meanness of his own nature, and has not gently led himself, but 
has wrestled his way, to wisdom.
  You may be sure that this refractory nature, which demands 
much toil, has been implanted in us. There are obstacles in our 
path; so let us fight, and call to our assistance some helpers. 
“Whom,” you say, “shall I call upon? Shall it be this man or 
that?”[3] There is another choice also open to you; you may go 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 231

to the ancients; for they have the time to help you. We can get 
assistance not only from the living, but from those of the past.
  Let us choose, however, from among the living, not men who 
pour forth their words with the greatest glibness, turning out 
commonplaces and holding. as it were, their own little private 
exhibitions,[4]—not these, I say, but men who teach us by their 
lives, men who tell us what we ought to do and then prove it by 
practice, who show us what we should avoid, and then are never 
caught doing that which they have ordered us to avoid.
  Choose as a guide one whom you will admire more when you 
see him act than when you hear him speak.
  Of course I would not prevent you from listening also to those 
philosophers who are wont to hold public meetings and discus-
sions, provided they appear before the people for the express pur-
pose of improving themselves and others, and do not practice 
their profession for the sake of self-seeking. For what is baser 
than philosophy courting applause? Does the sick man praise the 
surgeon while he is operating?
  In silence and with reverent awe submit to the cure.[5] Even 
though you cry applause, I shall listen to your cries as if you 
were groaning when your sores were touched. Do you wish to 
bear witness that you are attentive, that you are stirred by the 
grandeur of the subject? You may do this at the proper time; I 
shall of course allow you to pass judgment and cast a vote as to 
the better course. Pythagoras made his pupils keep silence for 
five years; do you think that they had the right on that account 
to break out immediately into applause?
  How mad is he who leaves the lecture-room in a happy frame 
of mind simply because of applause from the ignorant! Why do 
you take pleasure in being praised by men whom you yourself 
cannot praise? Fabianus used to give popular talks, but his 
audience listened with self-control. Occasionally a loud shout of 
232 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

praise would burst forth, but it was prompted by the greatness 
of his subject, and not by the sound of oratory that slipped forth 
pleasantly and softly.
  There should be a difference between the applause of the theatre 
and the applause of the school; and there is a certain decency even 
in bestowing praise. If you mark them carefully, all acts are always 
significant, and you can gauge character by even the most trifling 
signs. The lecherous man is revealed by his gait, by a movement of 
the hand, sometimes by a single answer, by his touching his head 
with a finger,[6] by the shifting of his eye. The scamp is shown up 
by his laugh; the madman by his face and general appearance. 
These qualities become known by certain marks; but you can 
tell the character of every man when you see how he gives and 
receives praise.
  The philosopher’s audience, from this corner and that, stretch 
forth admiring hands, and sometimes the adoring crowd almost 
hang over the lecturer’s head. But, if you really understand, that 
is not praise; it is merely applause. These outcries should be left 
for the arts which aim to please the crowd; let philosophy be 
worshipped in silence.
  Young men, indeed, must sometimes have free play to follow 
their impulses, but it should only be at times when they act from 
impulse, and when they cannot force themselves to be silent. 
Such praise as that gives a certain kind of encouragement to the 
hearers themselves, and acts as a spur to the youthful mind. But 
let them be roused to the matter, and not to the style; otherwise, 
eloquence does them harm, making them enamoured of itself, 
and not of the subject.
  I shall postpone this topic for the present; it demands a long and 
special investigation, to show how the public should be addressed, 
what indulgences should be allowed to a speaker on a public 
occasion, and what should be allowed to the crowd itself in the 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    233

presence of the speaker. There can be no doubt that philosophy 
has suffered a loss, now that she has exposed her charms for sale. 
But she can still be viewed in her sanctuary, if her exhibitor is a 
priest and not a pedlar. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Frag. 192 Usener.
2. i.e., that of Metrodorus, who had the happier nature.
3. i.e., a representative of this school or that. Seneca’s reply is, in effect, “Upon 
  no present school; go to the ancients.”
4. Circulatores were travelling showmen who performed sword-swallowing 
  and snake-charming feats, or cheap stump speakers who displayed their 
  eloquence at the street-corners in the hope of a few pence. The word is also 
  found in the sense of “pedlar”.
5. This and what follows, to § 11, are the words with which a true philosopher 
  is supposed to address his hearers.
6. The scratching of the head with one finger was for some reason regarded 
  as a mark of effeminacy or vice; cf. the charge brought against Pompey, 
  Plutarch, Moralia, 89 E and Ammianus, 17. 11 quod genuino quodam more 
  caput digito uno scalpebat . . . ut dissolutum. Compare also Juvenal, ix. 133 
  scalpere caput digito.
                    LETTER 53
           On the Faults of the Spirit
                        A

You can persuade me into almost anything now, for I was recently 
persuaded to travel by water. We cast off when the sea was lazily 
smooth; the sky, to be sure, was heavy with nasty clouds, such as 
usually break into rain or squalls. Still, I thought that the few miles 
between Puteoli and your dear Parthenope[1] might be run off in 
quick time, despite the uncertain and lowering sky. So, in order 
to get away more quickly, I made straight out to sea for Nesis,[2] 
with the purpose of cutting across all the inlets.
  But when we were so far out that it made little difference to 
me whether I returned or kept on, the calm weather, which had 
enticed me, came to naught. The storm had not yet begun, but the 
ground-swell was on, and the waves kept steadily coming faster. 
I began to ask the pilot to put me ashore somewhere; he replied 
that the coast was rough and a bad place to land, and that in a 
storm he feared a lee shore more than anything else.
  But I was suffering too grievously to think of the danger, since 
a sluggish seasickness which brought no relief was racking me, 
the sort that upsets the liver without clearing it. Therefore I laid 
down the law to my pilot, forcing him to make for the shore, willy-
nilly. When we drew near, I did not wait for things to be done in 
accordance with Vergil’s orders, until
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 235

     Prow faced seawards[3]
or
     Anchor plunged from bow;[4]

I remembered my profession[5] as a veteran devotee of cold water, 
and, clad as I was in my cloak, let myself down into the sea, just 
as a cold-water bather should.
  What do you think my feelings were, scrambling over the rocks, 
searching out the path, or making one for myself? l understood 
that sailors have good reason to fear the land. It is hard to believe 
what I endured when I could not endure myself; you may be sure 
that the reason why Ulysses was shipwrecked on every possible 
occasion was not so much because the sea-god was angry with 
him from his birth; he was simply subject to seasickness. And in 
the future I also, if I must go anywhere by sea, shall only reach 
my destination in the twentieth year.[6]
  When I finally calmed my stomach (for you know that one does 
not escape seasickness by escaping from the sea) and refreshed my 
body with a rubdown, I began to reflect how completely we forget 
or ignore our failings, even those that affect the body, which are 
continually reminding us of their existence—not to mention those 
which are more serious in proportion as they are more hidden.
  A slight ague deceives us; but when it has increased and a 
genuine fever has begun to burn, it forces even a hardy man, 
who can endure much suffering, to admit that he is ill. There is 
pain in the foot, and a tingling sensation in the joints; but we still 
hide the complaint and announce that we have sprained a joint, or 
else are tired from over-exercise. Then the ailment, uncertain at 
first, must be given a name; and when it begins to swell the ankles 
also, and has made both our feet “right” feet,[7] we are bound to 
confess that we have the gout.
  The opposite holds true of diseases of the soul; the worse one 
is, the less one perceives it. You need not be surprised, my beloved 
236 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

Lucilius. For he whose sleep is light pursues visions during 
slumber, and sometimes, though asleep, is conscious that he is 
asleep; but sound slumber annihilates our very dreams and sinks 
the spirit down so deep that it has no perception of self.
  Why will no man confess his faults? Because he is still in their 
grasp; only he who is awake can recount his dream, and similarly 
a confession of sin is a proof of sound mind.
  Let us, therefore, rouse ourselves, that we may be able to correct 
our mistakes. Philosophy, however, is the only power that can 
stir us, the only power that can shake off our deep slumber. 
Devote yourself wholly to philosophy. You are worthy of her; she 
is worthy of you; greet one another with a loving embrace. Say 
farewell to all other interests with courage and frankness. Do not 
study philosophy merely during your spare time.[8]
  If you were ill, you would stop caring for your personal 
concerns, and forget your business duties; you would not think 
highly enough of any client to take active charge of his case during 
a slight abatement of your sufferings. You would try your hardest 
to be rid of the illness as soon as possible. What, then? Shall you 
not do the same thing now? Throw aside all hindrances and give 
up your time to getting a sound mind; for no man can attain it 
if he is engrossed in other matters. Philosophy wields her own 
authority; she appoints her own time and does not allow it to be 
appointed for her. She is not a thing to be followed at odd times, 
but a subject for daily practice; she is mistress, and she commands 
our attendance.
  Alexander, when a certain state promised him a part of its terri-
tory and half its entire property, replied: “I invaded Asia with the 
intention, not of accepting what you might give, but of allowing 
you to keep what I might leave.” Philosophy likewise keeps say-
ing to all occupations: “I do not intend to accept the time which 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 237

you have left over, but I shall allow you to keep what I myself 
shall leave.”
  Turn to her, therefore, with all your soul, sit at her feet, cherish 
her; a great distance will then begin to separate you from other 
men. You will be far ahead of all mortals, and even the gods will 
not be far ahead of you. Do you ask what will be the difference 
between yourself and the gods? They will live longer. But, by my 
faith, it is the sign of a great artist to have confined a full likeness 
to the limits of a miniature. The wise man’s life spreads out to 
him over as large a surface as does all eternity to a god. There is 
one point in which the sage has an advantage over the god; for a 
god is freed from terrors by the bounty of nature, the wise man 
by his own bounty.
  What a wonderful privilege, to have the weaknesses of a man 
and the serenity of a god! The power of philosophy to blunt the 
blows of chance is beyond belief. No missile can settle in her 
body; she is well-protected and impenetrable. She spoils the force 
of some missiles and wards them off with the loose folds of her 
gown, as if they had no power to harm; others she dashes aside, 
and hurls them back with such force that they recoil upon the 
sender. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. The poetical name for Naples; perhaps it was once a town near by which 
 gave a sort of romantic second title to the larger city. Professor Summers 
 thinks that this poetical name, together with tua, indicates a reference to 
 a passage from the verse of Lucilius. Perhaps, however, tua means nothing 
 more than “the place which you love so well,” being in the neighbourhood 
 of Pompeii, the birthplace of Lucilius.
2. An islet near the mouth of the bay wherein Baiae was situated. Puteoli was 
 on the opposite side of the bay from Baiae.
3. Aeneid , vi. 3. This was the usual method of mooring a ship in ancient times.
4. Aeneid, iii. 277.
5. Compare Ep. lxxxiii. 5.
6. Ulysses took ten years on his journey, because of sea-sickness; Seneca will 
 need twice as many.
7. That is, they are so swollen that left and right look alike.
238   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

8. Literally “on sufferance,” whenever other matters permit. Cf. Pliny, Ep. vii. 
  30 precario studeo—“subject to interruption from others.”
                   LETTER 54
             On Asthma and Death
                       A

My ill-health had allowed me a long furlough, when suddenly it 
resumed the attack. “What kind of ill-health?” you say. And you 
surely have a right to ask; for it is true that no kind is unknown 
to me. But I have been consigned, so to speak, to one special ail-
ment. I do not know why I should call it by its Greek name;[1] for 
it is well enough described as “shortness of breath.” Its attack is 
of very brief duration, like that of a squall at sea; it usually ends 
within an hour. Who indeed could breathe his last for long?
  I have passed through all the ills and dangers of the flesh; but 
nothing seems to me more troublesome than this. And naturally 
so; for anything else may be called illness; but this is a sort of 
continued “last gasp.”[2] Hence physicians call it “practicing how 
to die.” For some day the breath will succeed in doing what it has 
so often essayed.
  Do you think I am writing this letter in a merry spirit, just 
because I have escaped? It would be absurd to take delight in such 
supposed restoration to health, as it would be for a defendant 
to imagine that he had won his case when he had succeeded in 
postponing his trial. Yet in the midst of my difficult breathing I 
never ceased to rest secure in cheerful and brave thoughts.
  “What?” I say to myself; “does death so often test me? Let it do 
so; I myself have for a long time tested death.” “When?” you ask. 
240 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

Before I was born. Death is non-existence, and I know already 
what that means. What was before me will happen again after me. 
If there is any suffering in this state, there must have been such 
suffering also in the past, before we entered the light of day. As a 
matter of fact, however, we felt no discomfort then.
  And I ask you, would you not say that one was the greatest 
of fools who believed that a lamp was worse off when it was 
extinguished than before it was lighted? We mortals also are 
lighted and extinguished; the period of suffering comes in 
between, but on either side there is a deep peace. For, unless I am 
very much mistaken, my dear Lucilius, we go astray in thinking 
that death only follows, when in reality it has both preceded us 
and will in turn follow us. Whatever condition existed before our 
birth, is death. For what does it matter whether you do not begin 
at all, or whether you leave off, inasmuch as the result of both 
these states is non-existence?
  I have never ceased to encourage myself with cheering counsels 
of this kind, silently, of course, since I had not the power to speak; 
then little by little this shortness of breath, already reduced to a 
sort of panting, came on at greater intervals, and then slowed 
down and finally stopped. Even by this time, although the gasping 
has ceased, the breath does not come and go normally; I still feel 
a sort of hesitation and delay in breathing. Let it be as it pleases, 
provided there be no sigh from the soul.[3]
  Accept this assurance from me—I shall never be frightened 
when the last hour comes; I am already prepared and do not 
plan a whole day ahead. But do you praise[4] and imitate the man 
whom it does not irk to die, though he takes pleasure in living. 
For what virtue is there in going away when you are thrust out? 
And yet there is virtue even in this: I am indeed thrust out, but it 
is as if I were going away willingly. For that reason the wise man 
can never be thrust out, because that would mean removal from 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    241

a place which he was unwilling to leave; and the wise man does 
nothing unwillingly. He escapes necessity, because he wills to do 
what necessity is about to force upon him. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., asthma. Seneca thinks that the Latin name is good enough.
2. Celcus (iv. 8) gives this disease as the second of those which deal with 
  the respiratory organs; cum vehementior est, ut spirare aeger sine sono et 
  anhelatione non possit.
3. i.e., that the sigh be physical—an asthmatic gasp—and not caused by 
  anguish of the soul.
4. The argument is: I am ready to die, but do not praise me on that account; 
  reserve your praise for him who is not loth to die, though (unlike me) he 
  finds it a pleasure to live (because he is in good health). Yes, for there is no 
  more virtue in accepting death when one hates life, than there is in leaving 
  a place when one is ejected.
                    LETTER 55
                 On Vatia’s Villa
                        A

I have just returned from a ride in my litter; and I am as weary as 
if I had walked the distance, instead of being seated. Even to be 
carried for any length of time is hard work, perhaps all the more 
so because it is an unnatural exercise; for Nature gave us legs with 
which to do our own walking, and eyes with which to do our own 
seeing. Our luxuries have condemned us to weakness; we have 
ceased to be able to do that which we have long declined to do.
  Nevertheless, I found it necessary to give my body a shaking 
up, in order that the bile which had gathered in my throat, if that 
was my trouble, might be shaken out, or, if the very breath within 
me had become, for some reason, too thick, that the jolting, which 
I have felt was a good thing for me, might make it thinner. So I 
insisted on being carried longer than usual, along an attractive 
beach, which bends between Cumae and Servilius Vatia’s country-
house,[1] shut in by the sea on one side and the lake on the other, 
just like a narrow path. It was packed firm under foot, because 
of a recent storm; since, as you know, the waves, when they beat 
upon the beach hard and fast, level it out; but a continuous period 
of fair weather loosens it, when the sand, which is kept firm by 
the water, loses its moisture.
  As my habit is, I began to look about for something there that 
might be of service to me, when my eyes fell upon the villa which 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 243

had once belonged to Vatia. So this was the place where that 
famous praetorian millionaire passed his old age! He was famed 
for nothing else than his life of leisure, and he was regarded as 
lucky only for that reason. For whenever men were ruined by their 
friendship with Asinius Gallus[2] whenever others were ruined by 
their hatred of Sejanus, and later[3] by their intimacy with him—
for it was no more dangerous to have offended him than to have 
loved him—people used to cry out: “O Vatia, you alone know 
how to live!”
  But what he knew was how to hide, not how to live; and it 
makes a great deal of difference whether your life be one of leisure 
or one of idleness. So I never drove past his country-place during 
Vatia’s lifetime without saying to myself: “Here lies Vatia!”
  But, my dear Lucilius, philosophy is a thing of holiness, 
something to be worshipped, so much so that the very counterfeit 
pleases. For the mass of mankind consider that a person is at 
leisure who has withdrawn from society, is free from care, self-
sufficient, and lives for himself; but these privileges can be the 
reward only of the wise man. Does he who is a victim of anxiety 
know how to live for himself? What? Does he even know (and 
that is of first importance) how to live at all?
  For the man who has fled from affairs and from men, who has 
been banished to seclusion by the unhappiness which his own 
desires have brought upon him, who cannot see his neighbour 
more happy than himself, who through fear has taken to 
concealment, like a frightened and sluggish animal.—this person 
is not living for himself he is living for his belly, his sleep, and his 
lust—and that is the most shameful thing in the world. He who 
lives for no one does not necessarily live for himself. Nevertheless, 
there is so much in steadfastness and adherence to one’s purpose 
that even sluggishness, if stubbornly maintained, assumes an air 
of authority[4] with us.
244 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  I could not describe the villa accurately; for I am familiar 
only with the front of the house, and with the parts which are 
in public view and can be seen by the mere passer-by. There are 
two grottoes, which cost a great deal of labour, as big as the most 
spacious hall, made by hand. One of these does not admit the 
rays of the sun, while the other keeps them until the sun sets. 
There is also a stream running through a grove of plane-trees, 
which draws for its supply both on the sea and on Lake Acheron; 
it intersects the grove just like a race-way[5] and is large enough 
to support fish, although its waters are continually being drawn 
off. When the sea is calm, however, they do not use the stream, 
only touching the well-stocked waters when the storms give the 
fishermen a forced holiday.
  But the most convenient thing about the villa is the fact that 
Baiae is next door, it is free from all the inconveniences of that 
resort, and yet enjoys its pleasures. I myself understand these 
attractions, and I believe that it is a villa suited to every season of 
the year. It fronts the west wind, which it intercepts in such a way 
that Baiae is denied it. So it seems that Vatia was no fool when he 
selected this place as the best in which to spend his leisure when 
it was already unfruitful and decrepit.
  The place where one lives, however, can contribute little towards 
tranquillity; it is the mind which must make everything agreeable 
to itself. I have seen men despondent in a gay and lovely villa, and 
I have seen them to all appearance full of business in the midst 
of a solitude. For this reason you should not refuse to believe 
that your life is well-placed merely because you are not now in 
Campania. But why are you not there? Just let your thoughts 
travel, even to this place.
  You may hold converse with your friends when they are absent, 
and indeed as often as you wish and for as long as you wish. For 
we enjoy this, the greatest of pleasures, all the more when we are 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 245

absent from one another. For the presence of friends makes us 
fastidious; and because we can at any time talk or sit together, 
when once we have parted we give not a thought to those whom 
we have just beheld.
  And we ought to bear the absence of friends cheerfully, just 
because everyone is bound to be often absent from his friends 
even when they are present. Include among such cases, in the 
first place, the nights spent apart, then the different engagements 
which each of two friends has, then the private studies of each and 
their excursions into the country, and you will see that foreign 
travel does not rob us of much.
  A friend should be retained in the spirit; such a friend can 
never be absent. He can see every day whomsoever he desires 
to see.
  I would therefore have you share your studies with me, your 
meals, and your walks. We should be living within too narrow 
limits if anything were barred to our thoughts. I see you, my dear 
Lucilius, and at this very moment I hear you; I am with you to 
such an extent that I hesitate whether I should not begin to write 
you notes instead of letters. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Cumae was on the coast about six miles north of Cape Misenum. Lake 
 Acheron (see § 6) was a salt-water pool between those two points, 
 separated from the sea by a sandbar; it lay near Lake Avernus and probably 
 derived its name from that fact. The Vatia mentioned here is unknown; he 
 must not be confused with Isauricus.
2. Son of Asinius Pollio; his frankness got him into trouble and he died of 
 starvation in a dungeon in A.D. 33. Tacitus, Ann. i. 32. 2, quotes Augustus, 
 discussing his own successor, as saying of Gallus avidus et minor. Sejanus 
 was overthrown and executed in A.D. 31.
3. i.e., after his fall.
4. i.e., imposes on us.
5. Literally, “like a Euripus,” referring to the narrow strait which divides 
 Euboea from Boeotia at Chalcis. Its current is swift.
                    LETTER 56
              On Quiet and Study
                        A

Beshrew me if I think anything more requisite than silence for 
a man who secludes himself in order to study! Imagine what a 
variety of noises reverberates about my ears! I have lodgings right 
over a bathing establishment. So picture to yourself the assort-
ment of sounds, which are strong enough to make me hate my 
very powers of hearing! When your strenuous gentleman, for 
example, is exercising himself by flourishing leaden weights; when 
he is working hard, or else pretends to be working hard, I can hear 
him grunt; and whenever he releases his imprisoned breath, I can 
hear him panting in wheezy and high-pitched tones. Or perhaps 
I notice some lazy fellow, content with a cheap rubdown, and 
hear the crack of the pummelling hand on his shoulder, varying 
in sound according as the hand is laid on flat or hollow. Then, 
perhaps, a professional[1] comes along, shouting out the score; 
that is the finishing touch.
  Add to this the arresting of an occasional roisterer or 
pickpocket, the racket of the man who always likes to hear his 
own voice in the bathroom,[2] or the enthusiast who plunges into 
the swimming-tank with unconscionable noise and splashing. 
Besides all those whose voices, if nothing else, are good, imagine 
the hair-plucker with his penetrating, shrill voice—for purposes 
of advertisement—continually giving it vent and never holding 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 247

his tongue except when he is plucking the armpits and making 
his victim yell instead. Then the cakeseller with his varied cries, 
the sausageman, the confectioner, and all the vendors of food 
hawking their wares, each with his own distinctive intonation.
  So you say: “What iron nerves or deadened ears, you must have, 
if your mind can hold out amid so many noises, so various and so 
discordant, when our friend Chrysippus[3] is brought to his death 
by the continual good-morrows that greet him!” But I assure you 
that this racket means no more to me than the sound of waves 
or falling water; although you will remind me that a certain tribe 
once moved their city merely because they could not endure the 
din of a Nile cataract.[4]
  Words seem to distract me more than noises; for words demand 
attention, but noises merely fill the ears and beat upon them. 
Among the sounds that din round me without distracting, I 
include passing carriages, a machinist in the same block, a saw-
sharpener near by, or some fellow who is demonstrating with 
little pipes and flutes at the Trickling Fountain,[5] shouting rather 
than singing.
  Furthermore, an intermittent noise upsets me more than a 
steady one. But by this time I have toughened my nerves against all 
that sort of thing, so that I can endure even a boatswain marking 
the time in high-pitched tones for his crew. For I force my mind 
to concentrate, and keep it from straying to things outside itself; 
all outdoors may be bedlam, provided that there is no disturbance 
within, provided that fear is not wrangling with desire in my 
breast, provided that meanness and lavishness are not at odds, one 
harassing the other. For of what benefit is a quiet neighbourhood, 
if our emotions are in an uproar?

     ‘Twas night, and all the world was lulled to rest.[6]
248 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  This is not true; for no real rest can be found when reason has 
not done the lulling. Night brings our troubles to the light, rather 
than banishes them; it merely changes the form of our worries. 
For even when we seek slumber, our sleepless moments are as 
harassing as the daytime. Real tranquillity is the state reached by 
an unperverted mind when it is relaxed.
  Think of the unfortunate man who courts sleep by surrendering 
his spacious mansion to silence, who, that his ear may be disturbed 
by no sound, bids the whole retinue of his slaves be quiet and that 
whoever approaches him shall walk on tiptoe; he tosses from this 
side to that and seeks a fitful slumber amid his frettings!
  He complains that he has heard sounds, when he has not heard 
them at all. The reason, you ask? His soul’s in an uproar; it must 
be soothed, and its rebellious murmuring checked. You need not 
suppose that the soul is at peace when the body is still. Sometimes 
quiet means disquiet.
  We must therefore rouse ourselves to action and busy ourselves 
with interests that are good, as often as we are in the grasp of an 
uncontrollable sluggishness.
  Great generals, when they see that their men are mutinous, 
check them by some sort of labour or keep them busy with small 
forays. The much occupied man has no time for wantonness, 
and it is an obvious commonplace that the evils of leisure can be 
shaken off by hard work. Although people may often have thought 
that I sought seclusion because I was disgusted with politics and 
regretted my hapless and thankless position,[7] yet, in the retreat to 
which apprehension and weariness have driven me, my ambition 
sometimes develops afresh. For it is not because my ambition 
was rooted out that it has abated, but because it was wearied or 
perhaps even put out of temper by the failure of its plans.
  And so with luxury, also, which sometimes seems to have 
departed, and then when we have made a profession of frugality, 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 249

begins to fret us and, amid our economies, seeks the pleasures 
which we have merely left but not condemned. Indeed, the more 
stealthily it comes, the greater is its force. For all unconcealed 
vices are less serious; a disease also is farther on the road to being 
cured when it breaks forth from concealment and manifests its 
power. So with greed, ambition, and the other evils of the mind—
you may be sure that they do most harm when they are hidden 
behind a pretence of soundness.
  Men think that we are in retirement, and yet we are not. For 
if we have sincerely retired, and have sounded the signal for 
retreat, and have scorned outward attractions, then, as I remarked 
above,[8] no outward thing will distract us; no music of men or of 
birds[9] can interrupt good thoughts, when they have once become 
steadfast and sure.
  The mind which starts at words or at chance sounds is unstable 
and has not yet withdrawn into itself; it contains within itself an 
element of anxiety and rooted fear, and this makes one a prey to 
care, as our Vergil says:

     I, whom of yore no dart could cause to flee,
     Nor Greeks, with crowded lines of infantry.
     Now shake at every sound, and fear the air,
     Both for my child and for the load I bear.[10]

  This man in his first state is wise; he blenches neither at the 
brandished spear, nor at the clashing armour of the serried foe, 
nor at the din of the stricken city. This man in his second state 
lacks knowledge fearing for his own concerns, he pales at every 
sound; any cry is taken for the battle-shout and overthrows him; 
the slightest disturbance renders him breathless with fear. It is the 
load that makes him afraid.[11]
  Select anyone you please from among your favourites of 
Fortune, trailing their many responsibilities, carrying their many 
250   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

burdens, and you will behold a picture of Vergil’s hero, “fearing 
both for his child and for the load he bears.”
   You may therefore be sure that you are at peace with yourself, 
when no noise readies you, when no word shakes you out of 
yourself, whether it be of flattery or of threat, or merely an empty 
sound buzzing about you with unmeaning din.
   “What then?” you say, “is it not sometimes a simpler matter 
just to avoid the uproar?” I admit this. Accordingly, I shall change 
from my present quarters. I merely wished to test myself and to 
give myself practice. Why need I be tormented any longer, when 
Ulysses found so simple a cure for his comrades[12] even against 
the songs of the Sirens? Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. Pilicrepus  probably means “ball-counter,”—one who keeps a record of the 
   strokes. Compare our “billiard-marker.”
  2. This was especially true of poets, cf. Horace,Sat.  i. 4. 76 suave locus voci 
   resonat conclusus, and Martial, iii. 44.
  3. It is nowhere else related of the famous Stoic philosopher Chrysippus that 
   he objected to the salutations of his friends; and, besides, the morning 
   salutation was a Roman, not a Greek, custom. Lipsius, therefore, was 
   probably right when he proposed to read here, for Chrysippus, Crispus, 
   one of Seneca’s friends; cf. Epigr. 6.
  4. The same story is told inNaturalis  Quaestiones, iv. 2. 5.
  5. A cone-shaped fountain, resembling a turning-post (meta) in the circus, 
   from which the water spouted through many jets; hence the “sweating” 
   (sudans). Its remains may still be seen now not far from the Colosseum on 
   the Velia.
  6. A fragment from the Argonautica of Varro Atacinus.
  7. See Introduction, page viii.
  8. § 4 of this letter.
  9. An allusion to the Sirens and Ulysses, cf. § 15 below.
10. Aeneas is escaping from Troy, Aeneid, ii. 726 ff.
11. Aeneas carries Anchises; the rich man carries his burden of wealth.
12. Not merely by stopping their ears with wax, but also by bidding them row 
   past the Sirens as quickly as possible. Odyssey, xii. 182.
                   LETTER 57
             On the Trials of Travel
                       A

When it was time for me to return to Naples from Baiae, I eas-
ily persuaded myself that a storm was raging, that I might avoid 
another trip by sea; and yet the road was so deep in mud, all the 
way, that I may be thought none the less to have made a voyage. 
On that day I had to endure the full fate of an athlete; the anoint-
ing[1] with which we began was followed by the sand-sprinkle in 
the Naples tunnel.[2]
  No place could be longer than that prison; nothing could be 
dimmer than those torches, which enabled us, not to see amid 
the darkness, but to see the darkness. But, even supposing that 
there was light in the place, the dust, which is an oppressive and 
disagreeable thing even in the open air, would destroy the light; 
how much worse the dust is there, where it rolls back upon itself, 
and, being shut in without ventilation, blows back in the faces of 
those who set it going! So we endured two inconveniences at the 
same time, and they were diametrically different: we struggled 
both with mud and with dust on the same road and on the same 
day.
  The gloom, however, furnished me with some food for thought; 
I felt a certain mental thrill, and a transformation unaccompanied 
by fear, due to the novelty and the unpleasantness of an unusual 
occurrence. Of course I am not speaking to you of myself at this 
252 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

point, because I am far from being a perfect person, or even a 
man of middling qualities; I refer to one over whom fortune has 
lost her control. Even such a man’s mind will be smitten with a 
thrill and he will change colour.
  For there are certain emotions, my dear Lucilius, which no 
courage can avoid; nature reminds courage how perishable a 
thing it is. And so he will contract his brow when the prospect is 
forbidding, will shudder at sudden apparitions, and will become 
dizzy when he stands at the edge of a high precipice and looks 
down. This is not fear; it is a natural feeling which reason cannot 
rout.
  That is why certain brave men, most willing to shed their own 
blood, cannot bear to see the blood of others. Some persons 
collapse and faint at the sight of a freshly inflicted wound; others 
are affected similarly on handling or viewing an old wound which 
is festering. And others meet the sword-stroke more readily than 
they see it dealt.
  Accordingly, as I said, I experienced a certain transformation, 
though it could not be called confusion. Then at the first glimpse 
of restored daylight my good spirits returned without forethought 
or command. And I began to muse and think how foolish we are 
to fear certain objects to a greater or less degree, since all of them 
end in the same way. For what difference does it make whether a 
watchtower or a mountain crashes down upon us? No difference 
at all, you will find. Nevertheless, there will be some men who 
fear the latter mishap to a greater degree, though both accidents 
are equally deadly; so true it is that fear looks not to the effect, 
but to the cause of the effect.
  Do you suppose that I am now referring to the Stoics,[3] who 
hold that the soul of a man crushed by a great weight cannot 
abide, and is scattered forthwith, because it has not had a free 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 253

opportunity to depart? That is not what I am doing; those who 
think thus are, in my opinion, wrong.
  Just as fire cannot be crushed out, since it will escape round 
the edges of the body which overwhelms it; just as the air cannot 
be damaged by lashes and blows, or even cut into, but flows back 
about the object to which it gives place; similarly the soul, which 
consists of the subtlest particles, cannot be arrested or destroyed 
inside the body, but, by virtue of its delicate substance, it will 
rather escape through the very object by which it is being crushed. 
Just as lightning, no matter how widely it strikes and flashes, 
makes its return through a narrow opening,[4] so the soul, which 
is still subtler than fire, has a way of escape through any part of 
the body.
  We therefore come to this question—whether the soul can 
be immortal. But be sure of this: if the soul survives the body 
after the body is crushed, the soul can in no wise be crushed out, 
precisely because it does not perish; for the rule of immortality 
never admits of exceptions, and nothing can harm that which is 
everlasting. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. i.e., an “anointing” with mud.
2. A characteristic figure. After anointing, the wrestler was sprinkled with 
 sand, so that the opponent’s hand might not slip. The Naples tunnel 
 furnished a shortcut to those who, like Seneca in this letter, did not wish 
 to take the time to travel by the shore route along the promontory of 
 Pausilipum.
3. Cf. Hicks, Stoic and Epicurean, p. 61, on the doctrine of interpenetration, 
 explaining the diffusion of the soul throughout the body; and Rohde, 
 Psyche, ii. 319, on the popular superstition that one who dies in a 
 whirlwind has his soul snatched away by the wind-spirits. The doctrine 
 referred to by Seneca is not, however, a purely Stoic doctrine.
4. For this belief compare Xenophon, Mem. iv. 3. 14, “No one sees the bolt 
 either on its way down or on its way back.” Seneca himself was much 
 interested in lightning cf. N. Q. ii. 40. 2.

                   LETTER 58
                    On Being
                       A

Tim Ferriss here. Pardon the interruption, but what follows is a very 
strange letter. Seneca is usually concrete, relatable, and very tactical. 
For most people, Letter 58, titled “On Being,” is none of these things.
  Still, it’s here because we want you to have the complete experi-
ence. Just be forewarned that Seneca goes a bit off the reservation. 
I found it jarring and wished I’d had a warning, hence this short 
note. You might think of Letter 58 as Seneca on mushrooms. If not 
your thing, feel free to skip to Letter 59. I usually do.
  And there’s another abstract letter coming up in Letter 65, titled 
“On The First Cause.” Please feel free to skip that letter—or any 
letter, for that matter—that doesn’t strike your fancy.
  With all that said, enjoy.

How scant of words our language is, nay, how poverty-stricken, 
I have not fully understood until today. We happened to be 
speaking of Plato, and a thousand subjects came up for discussion, 
which needed names and yet possessed none; and there were 
certain others which once possessed, but have since lost, their 
words because we were too nice about their use. But who can 
endure to be nice in the midst of poverty?[1]

Artwork opposite by Marcin Warzecha
256 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  There is an insect, called by the Greeksoestrus ,[2] which drives 
cattle wild and scatters them all over their pasturing grounds; it 
used to be called asilus in our language, as you may believe on 
the authority of Vergil:

     Near Silarus groves, and eke Alburnus’ shades
     Of green-clad oak-trees flits an insect, named
     Asilus by the Romans; in the Greek
     The word is rendered oestrus. With a rough
     And strident sound it buzzes and drives wild
     The terror-stricken herds throughout the woods.[3]

  By which I infer that the word has gone out of use. And, not to 
keep you waiting too long, there were certain uncompounded words 
current, like cernere ferro inter se, as will be proved again by Vergil:

     Great heroes, born in various lands, had come
     To settle matters mutually with the sword.[4]

This “settling matters” we now express by decernere. The plain 
word has become obsolete.
  The ancients used to say iusso, instead of iussero, in conditional 
clauses. You need not take my word, but you may turn again to 
Vergil:

     The other soldiers shall conduct the fight
     With me, where I shall bid.[5]

  It is not in my purpose to show, by this array of examples, 
how much time I have wasted on the study of language; I merely 
wish you to understand how many words, that were current in 
the works of Ennius and Accius, have become mouldy with age; 
while even in the case of Vergil, whose works are explored daily, 
some of his words have been filched away from us.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 257

  You will say, I suppose: “What is the purpose and meaning 
of this preamble?” I shall not keep you in the dark; I desire, if 
possible, to say the word essentia to you and obtain a favourable 
hearing. If I cannot do this, I shall risk it even though it put you 
out of humour. I have Cicero,[6] as authority for the use of this 
word, and I regard him as a powerful authority. If you desire tes-
timony of a later date, I shall cite Fabianus,[7] careful of speech, 
cultivated, and so polished in style that he will suit even our nice 
tastes. For what can we do, my dear Lucilius? How otherwise can 
we find a word for that which the Greeks call οὐσία, something 
that is indispensable, something that is the natural substratum of 
everything? I beg you accordingly to allow me to use this word 
essentia. I shall nevertheless take pains to exercise the privilege, 
which you have granted me, with as sparing a hand as possible; 
perhaps I shall be content with the mere right.
  Yet what good will your indulgence do me, if, lo and behold, I 
can in no wise express in Latin[8] the meaning of the word which 
gave me the opportunity to rail at the poverty of our language? 
And you will condemn our narrow Roman limits even more, 
when you find out that there is a word of one syllable which I 
cannot translate. “What is this?” you ask. It is the word ὄν. You 
think me lacking in facility; you believe that the word is ready to 
hand, that it might be translated by quod est. I notice, however, a 
great difference; you are forcing me to render a noun by a verb.
  But if I must do so, I shall render it by quod est. There are six 
ways[9] in which Plato expresses this idea, according to a friend of 
ours, a man of great learning, who mentioned the fact today. And 
I shall explain all of them to you, if I may first point out that there 
is something called genus and something called species.
  For the present, however, we are seeking the primary idea of 
genus, on which the others, the differentspecies , depend, which 
is the source of all classification, the term under which universal 
258 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

ideas are embraced. And the idea of genus will be reached if we 
begin to reckon back from particulars; for in this way we shall be 
conducted back to the primary notion.
  Now “man” is a species, as Aristotle[10] says; so is “horse,” or 
“dog.” We must therefore discover some common bond for all 
these terms, one which embraces them and holds them subordi-
nate to itself. And what is this? It is “animal.” And so there begins 
to be a genus “animal,” including all these terms, “man,” “horse,” 
and “dog.”
  But there are certain things which have life (anima) and yet are 
not “animals.” For it is agreed that plants and trees possess life, 
and that is why we speak of them as living and dying. Therefore 
the term “living things” will occupy a still higher place, because 
both animals and plants are included in this category. Certain 
objects, however, lack life—such as rocks. There will therefore 
be another term to take precedence over “living things,” and that 
is “substance.” I shall classify “substance” by saying that all sub-
stances are either animate or inanimate.
  But there is still something superior to “substance”; for we 
speak of certain things as possessing substance, and certain things 
as lacking substance. What, then, will be the term from which 
these things are derived? It is that to which we lately gave an inap-
propriate name, “that which exists.” For by using this term they 
will be divided into species, so that we can say: that which exists 
either possesses, or lacks, substance.
  This, therefore, is whatgenus  is—the primary, original, and 
(to play upon the word) “general.” Of course there are the other 
genera: but they are “special” genera: “man” being, for example, a 
genus. For “man” comprises species: by nations—Greek, Roman, 
Parthian; by colours—white, black, yellow. The term comprises 
individuals also: Cato, Cicero, Lucretius. So “man” falls into the 
category genus, in so far as it includes many kinds; but in so far 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 259

as it is subordinate to another term, it falls into the category spe-
cies. But the genus “that which exists” is general, and has no term 
superior to it. It is the first term in the classification of things, and 
all things are included under it.
  The Stoics would set ahead of this still another genus, even 
more primary; concerning which I shall immediately speak, after 
proving that the genus which has been discussed above, has rightly 
been placed first, being, as it is, capable of including everything.
  I therefore distribute “that which exists” into these two 
species—things with, and things without, substance. There is no 
third class. And how do I distribute “substance”? By saying that 
it is either animate or inanimate. And how do I distribute the 
“animate”? By saying: “Certain things have mind, while others 
have only life.” Or the idea may be expressed as follows: “Certain 
things have the power of movement, of progress, of change of 
position, while others are rooted in the ground; they are fed and 
they grow only through their roots.” Again, into what species do 
I divide “animals”? They are either perishable or imperishable.
  Certain of the Stoics regard the primary genus [11] as the “some-
thing.” I shall add the reasons they give for their belief; they say: 
“in the order of nature some things exist, and other things do not 
exist. And even the things that do not exist are really part of the 
order of nature. What these are will readily occur to the mind, 
for example centaurs, giants, and all other figments of unsound 
reasoning, which have begun to have a definite shape, although 
they have no bodily consistency.”
  But I now return to the subject which I promised to discuss for 
you, namely, how it is that Plato[12] divides all existing things in 
six different ways. The first class of “that which exists” cannot be 
grasped by the sight or by the touch, or by any of the senses; but 
it can be grasped by the thought. Any generic conception, such 
as the generic idea “man,” does not come within the range of the 
260 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

eyes; but “man” in particular does; as, for example, Cicero, Cato. 
The term “animal” is not seen; it is grasped by thought alone. A 
particular animal, however, is seen, for example, a horse, a dog.
  The second class of “things which exist,” according to Plato, is 
that which is prominent and stands out above everything else; 
this, he says, exists in a pre-eminent degree.[13] The word “poet” 
is used indiscriminately, for this term is applied to all writers of 
verse; but among the Greeks it has come to be the distinguishing 
mark of a single individual. You know that Homer is meant when 
you hear men say “the poet.” What, then, is this pre-eminent 
Being? God, surely, one who is greater and more powerful than 
anyone else.
  The third class is made up of those things which exist in the 
proper sense of the term;[14] they are countless in number, but 
are situated beyond our sight. “What are these?” you ask. They 
are Plato’s own furniture, so to speak; he calls them “ideas,” and 
from them all visible things are created, and according to their 
pattern all things are fashioned. They are immortal, unchangeable, 
inviolable.
  And this “idea,” or rather, Plato’s conception of it,[15] is as 
follows: “The ‘idea’ is the everlasting pattern of those things which 
are created by nature.” I shall explain this definition, in order to 
set the subject before you in a clearer light: Suppose that I wish to 
make a likeness of you; I possess in your own person the pattern of 
this picture, wherefrom my mind receives a certain outline, which 
it is to embody in its own handiwork. That outward appearance, 
then, which gives me instruction and guidance, this pattern 
for me to imitate, is the “idea.” Such patterns, therefore, nature 
possesses in infinite number—of men, fish, trees, according to 
whose model everything that nature has to create is worked out.
  In the fourth place we shall put “form.”[16] And if you would 
know what “form” means, you must pay close attention, calling 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 261

Plato, and not me, to account for the difficulty of the subject. 
However, we cannot make fine distinctions without encountering 
difficulties. A moment ago I made use of the artist as an illustration. 
When the artist desired to reproduce Vergil in colours he would 
gaze upon Vergil himself. The “idea” was Vergil’s outward 
appearance, and this was the pattern of the intended work. That 
which the artist draws from this “idea” and has embodied in his 
own work, is the “form.”
  Do you ask me where the difference lies? The former is the 
pattern; while the latter is the shape taken from the pattern and 
embodied in the work. Our artist follows the one, but the other he 
creates. A statue has a certain external appearance; this external 
appearance of the statue is the “form.” And the pattern[17] itself has 
a certain external appearance, by gazing upon which the sculptor 
has fashioned his statue; this is the “idea.” If you desire a further 
distinction, I will say that the “form” is in the artist’s work, the 
“idea” outside his work, and not only outside it, but prior to it.
  The fifth class is made up of the things which exist in the usual 
sense of the term. These things are the first that have to do with 
us; here we have all such things as men, cattle, and things. In the 
sixth class goes all that which has a fictitious existence, like void, 
or time.
  Whatever is concrete to the sight or touch, Plato does not 
include among the things which he believes to be existent in the 
strict sense of the term.[18] These things are the first that have to do 
with us: here we have all such things as men, cattle, and things. For 
they are in a state of flux, constantly diminishing or increasing. 
None of us is the same man in old age that he was in youth; nor 
the same on the morrow as on the day preceding. Our bodies are 
burned along like flowing waters; every visible object accompa-
nies time in its flight; of the things which we see, nothing is fixed. 
Even I myself as I comment on this change, am changed myself.
262 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  This is just what Heraclitus[19] says: “We go down twice into 
the same river, and yet into a different river.” For the stream still 
keeps the same name, but the water has already flowed past. Of 
course this is much more evident in rivers than in human beings. 
Still, we mortals are also carried past in no less speedy a course; 
and this prompts me to marvel at our madness in cleaving with 
great affection to such a fleeting thing as the body, and in fearing 
lest some day we may die, when every instant means the death 
of our previous condition.[20] Will you not stop fearing lest that 
may happen once which really happens every day?
  So much for man—a substance that flows away and falls, 
exposed to every influence; but the universe, too, immortal and 
enduring as it is, changes and never remains the same. For though 
it has within itself all that it has had, it has it in a different way 
from that in which it has had it; it keeps changing its arrangement.
  “Very well,” say you, “what good shall I get from all this fine 
reasoning?” None, if you wish me to answer your question. 
Nevertheless, just as an engraver rests his eyes when they have 
long been under a strain and are weary, and calls them from 
their work, and “feasts” them, as the saying is; so we at times 
should slacken our minds and refresh them with some sort of 
entertainment. But let even your entertainment be work; and even 
from these various forms of entertainment you will select, if you 
have been watchful, something that may prove wholesome.
  That is my habit, Lucilius: I try to extract and render useful 
some element from every field of thought, no matter how far 
removed it may be from philosophy. Now what could be less likely 
to reform character than the subjects which we have been dis-
cussing? And how can I be made a better man by the “ideas” of 
Plato? What can I draw from them that will put a check on my 
appetites? Perhaps the very thought, that all these things which 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 263

minister to our senses, which arouse and excite us, are by Plato 
denied a place among the things that really exist.
  Such things are therefore imaginary, and though they for the 
moment present a certain external appearance, yet they are in no 
case permanent or substantial; none the less, we crave them as if 
they were always to exist, or as if we were always to possess them.
  We are weak, watery beings standing in the midst of unrealities; 
therefore let us turn our minds to the things that are everlasting. 
Let us look up to the ideal outlines of all things, that flit about 
on high, and to the God who moves among them and plans 
how he may defend from death that which he could not make 
imperishable because its substance forbade, and so by reason may 
overcome the defects of the body.
  For all things abide, not because they are everlasting, but 
because they are protected by the care of him who governs all 
things; but that which was imperishable would need no guardian. 
The Master Builder keeps them safe, overcoming the weakness 
of their fabric by his own power. Let us despise everything that 
is so little an object of value that it makes us doubt whether it 
exists at all.
  Let us at the same time reflect, seeing that Providence rescues 
from its perils the world itself, which is no less mortal than we 
ourselves, that to some extent our petty bodies can be made 
to tarry longer upon earth by our own providence, if only we 
acquire the ability to control and check those pleasures whereby 
the greater portion of mankind perishes.
  Plato himself, by taking pains, advanced to old age. To be sure, 
he was the fortunate possessor of a strong and sound body (his 
very name was given him because of his broad chest[21]); but his 
strength was much impaired by sea voyages and desperate adven-
tures. Nevertheless, by frugal living, by setting a limit upon all that 
264 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

rouses the appetites, and by painstaking attention to himself, he 
reached that advanced age in spite of many hindrances.
  You know, I am sure, that Plato had the good fortune, thanks to 
his careful living, to die on his birthday, after exactly completing 
his eighty-first year. For this reason wise men of the East, who 
happened to be in Athens at that time, sacrificed to him after his 
death, believing that his length of days was too full for a mortal 
man, since he had rounded out the perfect number of nine times 
nine. I do not doubt that he would have been quite willing to forgo 
a few days from this total, as well as the sacrifice.
  Frugal living can bring one to old age; and to my mind old 
age is not to be refused any more than is to be craved. There is a 
pleasure in being in one’s own company as long as possible, when 
a man has made himself worth enjoying. The question, therefore, 
on which we have to record our judgment is, whether one should 
shrink from extreme old age and should hasten the end artificially, 
instead of waiting for it to come. A man who sluggishly awaits his 
fate is almost a coward, just as he is immoderately given to wine 
who drains the jar dry and sucks up even the dregs.
  But we shall ask this question also: “Is the extremity of life the 
dregs, or is it the clearest and purest part of all, provided only 
that the mind is unimpaired, and the senses, still sound, give 
their support to the spirit, and the body is not worn out and dead 
before its time?” For it makes a great deal of difference whether a 
man is lengthening his life or his death.
  But if the body is useless for service, why should one not free 
the struggling soul? Perhaps one ought to do this a little before the 
debt is due, lest, when it falls due, he may be unable to perform 
the act. And since the danger of living in wretchedness is greater 
than the danger of dying soon, he is a fool who refuses to stake a 
little time and win a hazard of great gain.[22]
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 265

  Few have lasted through extreme old age to death without 
impairment, and many have lain inert, making no use of them-
selves. How much more cruel, then, do you suppose it really is 
to have lost a portion of your life, than to have lost your right to 
end that life?
  Do not hear me with reluctance, as if my statement applied 
directly to you, but weigh what I have to say. It is this, that I shall 
not abandon old age, if old age preserves me intact for myself, and 
intact as regards the better part of myself; but if old age begins to 
shatter my mind, and to pull its various faculties to pieces, if it 
leaves me, not life, but only the breath of life, I shall rush out of 
a house that is crumbling and tottering.
  I shall not avoid illness by seeking death, as long as the illness 
is curable and does not impede my soul. I shall not lay violent 
hands upon myself just because I am in pain; for death under such 
circumstances is defeat. But if I find out that the pain must always 
be endured, I shall depart, not because of the pain but because it 
will be a hindrance to me as regards all my reasons for living. He 
who dies just because he is in pain is a weakling, a coward; but 
he who lives merely to brave out this pain, is a fool.
  But I am running on too long; and, besides, there is matter here 
to fill a day. And how can a man end his life, if he cannot end a 
letter? So farewell. This last word[23] you will read with greater 
pleasure than all my deadly talk about death. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. This theme was emphasized by Lucretius, i. 136 and 832, and iii. 260. 
  Munro thinks, however, that “Lucretius had too much instead of too little 
  technical language for a poet.” Seneca knew Lucretius; cf. Epp. lviii. 12, xc. 
  11, etc.
  2. The gad-fly.
 3. Georgics, iii. 146 ff.
 4. Aeneid, xii. 708 f.
 5. Aeneid, xi. 467.
266   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  6. Cicero usually says natura. The word, according to Quintilian, was first 
   used by a certain Sergius Flavus. It is also found in Apulcius, Macrobius, 
   and Sidonius.
  7. See Ep. c. Papirius Fabianus, who lived in the times of Tiberius and 
   Caligula, was a pupil of the Sextius of Ep. lix., and was (Pliny, N. H. xxxvi. 
   15. 24) naturae rerum peritissimus. He is praised by the elder Seneca 
   (Cont. 2. Praef.) who, however, says of him deerat robur—splendor aderat.
  8. i.e., I must not use other imported words to explain essentia, which is not 
   a native Latin word, but invented as a literal translation of οὐσία.
  9. Cf. § 16.
10. Categories 2 b 11 and often.
11. i.e., the genus beyond “that which exists.”
12. Cf. § 8. Plato’s usual division was threefold—αἰσθητά, μαθηματικά, εἴδη 
   (sensibilia, mathematica, ideae)—a division which is often quoted by 
   Aristotle.
13. Εἶναι κατ΄ ἐξοχήν. After illustrating the poet κατ΄ ἐξοχήν, Homer, he 
   passes to τὸ ὂν κατ΄ ἐξοχήν, God.
14. Ὄντως τὰ ὄντα. “Each idea is a single, independent, separate, self-existing, 
   perfect, and eternal essence”; Adam, The Republic of Plato, ii. 169. See 
   Zeller’s Plato (p. 237) for a list of Greek words used by Plato to indicate 
   the reality of these ideas.
15. Cf., for example, Parmenides 132 D. What follows is not a direct 
   quotation, and the same thought is found elsewhere.
16. Εἶδος.
17. i.e., the “original.”
18. i.e., κυρίως ὄντα. See above, § 16f
19. Frag. 49a Diels² ποταμοῖς τοῖς αὐτοῖς ἐμβαίνομέν τε καὶ οὐκ ἐμβαίνομεν, 
   εἶμέν τε καὶ οὐκ εἶμεν.
20. This idea Seneca has already developed in Ep. xxiv. 20.
21. Diogenes Laertius, iii. 1, who records also other explanations of the name 
   Plato, which replaced the given name Aristocles.
22. Cf. Plato, Phaedo, 114 D καὶ ἄξιον κινδυνεῦσαι, οἰομένῳ οὔτως ἔχειν· 
   καλὸς γὰρ ὁ κίνδυνος, the “chance” being immortality.
23. Since vale means “keep well” no less than “good bye.”
                   LETTER 59
              On Pleasure and Joy
                       A

I received great pleasure from your letter; kindly allow me to use 
these words in their everyday meaning, without insisting upon 
their Stoic import. For we Stoics hold that pleasure is a vice. Very 
likely it is a vice; but we are accustomed to use the word when we 
wish to indicate a happy state of mind.
  I am aware that if we test words by our formula,[1] even pleasure 
is a thing of ill repute, and joy can be attained only by the wise. For 
“joy” is an elation of spirit, of a spirit which trusts in the goodness 
and truth of its own possessions. The common usage, however, 
is that we derive great “joy” from a friend’s position as consul, or 
from his marriage, or from the birth of his child; but these events, 
so far from being matters of joy, are more often the beginnings of 
sorrow to come. No, it is a characteristic of real joy that it never 
ceases, and never changes into its opposite.[2]
  Accordingly, when our Vergil speaks of

     The evil joys of the mind,[3]

his words are eloquent, but not strictly appropriate. For no “joy” 
can be evil. He has given the name “joy” to pleasures, and has 
thus expressed his meaning. For he has conveyed the idea that 
men take delight in their own evil.
268 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  Nevertheless, I was not wrong in saying that I received great 
“pleasure” from your letter; for although an ignorant[4] man may 
derive “joy” if the cause be an honourable one, yet, since his emo-
tion is wayward, and is likely soon to take another direction, I call 
it “pleasure”; for it is inspired by an opinion concerning a spurious 
good; it exceeds control and is carried to excess.
  But, to return to the subject, let me tell you what delighted me 
in your letter. You have your words under control. You are not 
carried away by your language, or borne beyond the limits which 
you have determined upon.
  Many writers are tempted by the charm of some alluring phrase 
to some topic other than that which they had set themselves to 
discuss. But this has not been so in your case; all your words are 
compact, and suited to the subject, You say all that you wish, and 
you mean still more than you say. This is a proof of the importance 
of your subject matter, showing that your mind, as well as your 
words, contains nothing superfluous or bombastic.
  I do, however,[5] find some metaphors, not, indeed, daring ones, 
but the kind which have stood the test of use. I find similes also; 
of course, if anyone forbids us to use them, maintaining that poets 
alone have that privilege, he has not, apparently, read any of our 
ancient prose writers, who had not yet learned to affect a style 
that should win applause. For those writers, whose eloquence 
was simple and directed only towards proving their case, are full 
of comparisons; and I think that these are necessary, not for the 
same reason which makes them necessary for the poets, but in 
order that they may serve as props to our feebleness, to bring both 
speaker and listener face to face with the subject under discussion.
  For example, I am at this very moment reading Sextius;[6] he is 
a keen man, and a philosopher who, though he writes in Greek, 
has the Roman standard of ethics. One of his similes appealed 
especially to me, that of an army marching in hollow square,[7] 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 269

in a place where the enemy might be expected to appear from 
any quarter, ready for battle. “This,” said he, “is just what the 
wise man ought to do; he should have all his fighting qualities 
deployed on every side, so that wherever the attack threatens, 
there his supports may be ready to hand and may obey the 
captain’s command without confusion.” This is what we notice 
in armies which serve under great leaders; we see how all the 
troops simultaneously understand their general’s orders, since 
they are so arranged that a signal given by one man passes down 
the ranks of cavalry and infantry at the same moment.
  This, he declares, is still more necessary for men like ourselves; 
for soldiers have often feared an enemy without reason, and the 
march which they thought most dangerous has in fact been most 
secure; but folly brings no repose, fear haunts it both in the van 
and in the rear of the column, and both flanks are in a panic. Folly 
is pursued, and confronted, by peril. It blenches at everything; it 
is unprepared; it is frightened even by auxiliary troops.[8] But the 
wise man is fortified against all inroads; he is alert; he will not 
retreat before the attack of poverty, or of sorrow, or of disgrace, 
or of pain. He will walk undaunted both against them and among 
them.
  We human beings are fettered and weakened by many vices; 
we have wallowed in them for a long time and it is hard for us to 
be cleansed. We are not merely defiled; we are dyed by them. But, 
to refrain from passing from one figure[9] to another, I will raise 
this question, which I often consider in my own heart: why is it 
that folly holds us with such an insistent grasp? It is, primarily, 
because we do not combat it strongly enough, because we do not 
struggle towards salvation with all our might; secondly, because 
we do not put sufficient trust in the discoveries of the wise, and 
do not drink in their words with open hearts; we approach this 
great problem in too trifling a spirit.
270 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  But how can a man learn, in the struggle against his vices, an 
amount that is enough, if the time which he gives to learning 
is only the amount left over from his vices? None of us goes 
deep below the surface. We skim the top only, and we regard the 
smattering of time spent in the search for wisdom as enough and 
to spare for a busy man.
  What hinders us most of all is that we are too readily satisfied 
with ourselves; if we meet with someone who calls us good men, 
or sensible men, or holy men, we see ourselves in his description, 
not content with praise in moderation, we accept everything 
that shameless flattery heaps upon us, as if it were our due. We 
agree with those who declare us to be the best and wisest of men, 
although we know that they are given to much lying. And we 
are so self-complacent that we desire praise for certain actions 
when we are especially addicted to the very opposite. Yonder 
person hears himself called “most gentle” when he is inflicting 
tortures, or “most generous” when he is engaged in looting, or 
“most temperate” when he is in the midst of drunkenness and lust. 
Thus it follows that we are unwilling to be reformed, just because 
we believe ourselves to be the best of men.
  Alexander was roaming as far as India, ravaging tribes that 
were but little known, even to their neighbours. During the 
blockade of a certain city, while he was reconnoitring the walls 
and hunting for the weakest spot in the fortifications, he was 
wounded by an arrow. Nevertheless, he long continued the siege, 
intent on finishing what he had begun. The pain of his wound, 
however, as the surface became dry and as the flow of blood was 
checked, increased; his leg gradually became numb as he sat his 
horse; and finally, when he was forced to withdraw, he exclaimed: 
“All men swear that I am the son of Jupiter, but this wound cries 
out that I am mortal.”[10]
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 271

  Let us also act in the same way. Each man, according to his lot 
in life, is stultified by flattery. We should say to him who flatters 
us: “You call me a man of sense, but I understand how many of 
the things which I crave are useless, and how many of the things 
which I desire will do me harm. I have not even the knowledge, 
which satiety teaches to animals, of what should be the measure 
of my food or my drink. I do not yet know how much I can hold.”
  I shall now show you how you may know that you are not 
wise. The wise man is joyful, happy and calm, unshaken, he lives 
on a plane with the gods. Now go, question yourself; if you are 
never downcast, if your mind is not harassed by my apprehension, 
through anticipation of what is to come, if day and night your 
soul keeps on its even and unswerving course, upright and 
content with itself, then you have attained to the greatest good 
that mortals can possess. If, however, you seek pleasures of all 
kinds in all directions, you must know that you are as far short 
of wisdom as you are short of joy. Joy is the goal which you desire 
to reach, but you are wandering from the path, if you expect to 
reach your goal while you are in the midst of riches and official 
titles—in other words, if you seek joy in the midst of cares, these 
objects for which you strive so eagerly, as if they would give you 
happiness and pleasure, are merely causes of grief.
  All men of this stamp, I maintain, are pressing on in pursuit 
of joy, but they do not know where they may obtain a joy that is 
both great and enduring. One person seeks it in feasting and self-
indulgence; another, in canvassing for honours and in being sur-
rounded by a throng of clients; another, in his mistress; another, 
in idle display of culture and in literature that has no power to 
heal; all these men are led astray by delights which are deceptive 
and short-lived—like drunkenness for example, which pays for 
a single hour of hilarious madness by a sickness of many days, or 
272 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

like applause and the popularity of enthusiastic approval which 
are gained, and atoned for, at the cost of great mental disquietude.
  Reflect, therefore, on this, that the effect of wisdom is a joy that 
is unbroken and continuous.[11] The mind of the wise man is like 
the ultra-lunar firmament;[12] eternal calm pervades that region. 
You have, then, a reason for wishing to be wise, if the wise man is 
never deprived of joy. This joy springs only from the knowledge 
that you possess the virtues. None but the brave, the just, the self-
restrained, can rejoice.
  And when you query: “What do you mean? Do not the foolish 
and the wicked also rejoice?” I reply, no more than lions who 
have caught their prey. When men have wearied themselves with 
wine and lust, when night fails them before their debauch is done, 
when the pleasures which they have heaped upon a body that is 
too small to hold them begin to fester, at such times they utter in 
their wretchedness those lines of Vergil:[13]

     Thou knowest how, amid false-glittering joys.
     We spent that last of nights.

  Pleasure-lovers spend every night amid false-glittering joys, 
and just as if it were their last. But the joy which comes to the 
gods, and to those who imitate the gods, is not broken off, nor 
does it cease; but it would surely cease were it borrowed from 
without. Just because it is not in the power of another to bestow, 
neither is it subject to another’s whims. That which Fortune has 
not given, she cannot take away. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. A figure taken from the praetor’s edict, which was posted publicly on a 
  white tablet, album.
  2. i.e., grief.
 3. Aeneid, vi. 278.
  4. The wise man, on the other hand, has his emotions under control, and is 
  less likely to be swayed by “an opinion concerning a spurious good.”
  5. i.e., in spite of the fact that your style is compact.
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    273

  6. Q. Sextius was a Stoic with Pythagorean leanings, who lived in the days 
   of Julius Caesar. He is also mentioned in Epp. lxiv. and lxxiii. A book of 
   moral Sententiae, taken over by the church, is assigned to him, perhaps 
   wrongly.
 7. Agmen  quadratum was an army in a square formation, with baggage in 
   the middle, ready for battle—as contrasted with agmen iustum (close 
   ranks), and acies triplex (a stationary formation, almost rectangular). 
   Agmen quadratum is first found in the Spanish campaigns of the second 
   century B.C.
  8. i.e., by the troops of the second line, who in training and quality were 
   inferior to the troops of the legion.
  9. i.e., from that of the “fetter” to that of the “dust and dye.” In § 6 Seneca has 
   praised Lucilius for his judicious employment of metaphors.
10. Several similar stories are related about Alexander, e.g. Plutarch, Moralia, 
   180 E, where he says to his flatterers, pointing to a wound just received: 
   “See, this is blood, not ichor!”
11. Seneca returns to the definition ofgaudium  given in § 2: “True joy never 
   ceases and never changes into its opposite.” It is not subject to ups and 
   downs.
12. Cf. Seneca, De Ira, iii. 6. 1. The upper firmament, near the stars, is free 
   from clouds and storms. It is calm, though the lightning plays below.
13. Aeneid, vi. 513 f. The night is that which preceeded the sack of Troy.
                    LETTER 60
              On Harmful Prayers
                        A

I file a complaint, I enter a suit, I am angry. Do you still desire 
what your nurse, your guardian, or your mother, have prayed for 
in your behalf? Do you not yet understand what evil they prayed 
for? Alas, how hostile to us are the wishes of our own folk! And 
they are all the more hostile in proportion as they are more com-
pletely fulfilled. It is no surprise to me, at my age, that nothing 
but evil attends us from our early youth; for we have grown up 
amid the curses invoked by our parents. And may the gods give 
ear to our cry also, uttered in our own behalf—one which asks 
no favours!
  How long shall we go on making demands upon the gods, as 
if we were still unable to support ourselves? How long shall we 
continue to fill with grain the market-places of our great cities? 
How long must the people gather it in for us? How long shall 
many ships convey the requisites for a single meal, bringing them 
from no single sea? The bull is filled when he feeds over a few 
acres; and one forest is large enough for a herd of elephants. Man, 
however, draws sustenance both from the earth and from the sea.
  What, then? Did nature give us bellies so insatiable, when she 
gave us these puny bodies, that we should outdo the hugest and 
most voracious animals in greed? Not at all. How small is the 
amount which will satisfy nature? A very little will send her away 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 275

contented. It is not the natural hunger of our bellies that costs us 
dear, but our solicitous cravings.
  Therefore those who, as Sallust[1] puts it, “hearken to their 
bellies,” should be numbered among the animals, and not among 
men; and certain men, indeed, should be numbered, not even 
among the animals, but among the dead. He really lives who is 
made use of by many; he really lives who makes use of himself. 
Those men, however, who creep into a hole and grow torpid[2] are 
no better off in their homes than if they were in their tombs. Right 
there on the marble lintel of the house of such a man you may 
inscribe his name,[3] for he has died before he is dead. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Catiline, i. 1.
2. i.e., like animals.
3. i.e., you may put an epitaph upon his dwelling as if it were a tomb.
                    LETTER 61
         On Meeting Death Cheerfully
                        A

Let us cease to desire that which we have been desiring. I, at least, 
am doing this: in my old age I have ceased to desire what I desired 
when a boy. To this single end my days and my nights are passed; 
this is my task, this the object of my thoughts—to put an end to 
my chronic ills. I am endeavouring to live every day as if it were 
a complete life. I do not indeed snatch it up as if it were my last; 
I do regard it, however, as if it might even be my last.
  The present letter is written to you with this in mind as if death 
were about to call me away in the very act of writing. I am ready 
to depart, and I shall enjoy life just because I am not over-anxious 
as to the future date of my departure.
  Before I became old I tried to live well; now that I am old, I 
shall try to die well; but dying well means dying gladly. See to it 
that you never do anything unwillingly.
  That which is bound to be a necessity if you rebel, is not a 
necessity if you desire it. This is what I mean: he who takes his 
orders gladly, escapes the bitterest part of slavery—doing what 
one does not want to do. The man who does something under 
orders is not unhappy; he is unhappy who does something against 
his will. Let us therefore so set our minds in order that we may 
desire whatever is demanded of us by circumstances, and above 
all that we may reflect upon our end without sadness.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 277

  We must make ready for death before we make ready for life. 
Life is well enough furnished, but we are too greedy with regard 
to its furnishings; something always seems to us lacking, and will 
always seem lacking. To have lived long enough depends neither 
upon our years nor upon our days, but upon our minds. I have 
lived, my dear friend Lucilius, long enough. I have had my fill;[1] 
I await death. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. A reminiscence of Lucretius, iii. 938 f. Cur non ut plenus vitae conviva 
 recedus Aequo animoque capis securam, stulte, quietem? Cf. also Horace, 
 Sat. i. 1. 118 f. vitae Cedat uti conviva satur.
                    LETTER 62
               On Good Company
                        A

We are deceived by those who would have us believe that a mul-
titude of affairs blocks their pursuit of liberal studies; they make 
a pretence of their engagements, and multiply them, when their 
engagements are merely with themselves. As for me, Lucilius, 
my time is free; it is indeed free, and wherever I am, I am master 
of myself. For I do not surrender myself to my affairs, but loan 
myself to them, and I do not hunt out excuses for wasting my 
time. And wherever I am situated, I carry on my own meditations 
and ponder in my mind some wholesome thought.
  When I give myself to my friends, I do not withdraw from my 
own company, nor do I linger with those who are associated with 
me through some special occasion or some case which arises from 
my official position. But I spend my time in the company of all 
the best; no matter in what lands they may have lived, or in what 
age, I let my thoughts fly to them.
  Demetrius,[1] for instance, the best of men, I take about with 
me, and, leaving the wearers of purple and fine linen, I talk with 
him, half-naked as he is, and hold him in high esteem. Why 
should I not hold him in high esteem? I have found that he lacks 
nothing. It is in the power of any man to despise all things, but 
of no man to possess all things. The shortest cut to riches is to 
despise riches. Our friend Demetrius, however, lives not merely 
                                   Moral Letters to Lucilius    279

as if he has learned to despise all things, but as if he has handed 
them over for others to possess.[2] Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Demetrius of Sunium, the Cynic philosopher, who taught in Rome in the 
  reign of Caligula and was banished by Nero.
2. i.e., he has achieved the Stoic ideal of independence of all external control; 
  he is a king and has all things to bestow upon others, but needs nothing for 
  himself.
                    LETTER 63
           On Grief  for Lost Friends
                        A

I am grieved to hear that your friend Flaccus is dead, but I would 
not have you sorrow more than is fitting. That you should not 
mourn at all I shall hardly dare to insist; and yet I know that it 
is the better way. But what man will ever be so blessed with that 
ideal steadfastness of soul, unless he has already risen far above 
the reach of Fortune? Even such a man will be stung by an event 
like this, but it will be only a sting. We, however, may be forgiven 
for bursting into tears, if only our tears have not flowed to excess, 
and if we have checked them by our own efforts. Let not the eyes 
be dry when we have lost a friend, nor let them overflow. We may 
weep, but we must not wail.
  Do you think that the law which I lay down for you is harsh, 
when the greatest of Greek poets has extended the privilege of 
weeping to one day only, in the lines where he tells us that even 
Niobe took thought of food?[1] Do you wish to know the reason 
for lamentations and excessive weeping? It is because we seek 
the proofs of our bereavement in our tears, and do not give way 
to sorrow, but merely parade it. No man goes into mourning for 
his own sake. Shame on our ill-timed folly! There is an element 
of self-seeking even in our sorrow.
  “What,” you say, “am I to forget my friend?” It is surely a short-
lived memory that you vouchsafe to him, if it is to endure only as 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 281

long as your grief; presently that brow of yours will be smoothed 
out in laughter by some circumstance, however casual. It is to 
a time no more distant than this that I put off the soothing of 
every regret, the quieting of even the bitterest grief. As soon as 
you cease to observe yourself, the picture of sorrow which you 
have contemplated will fade away; at present you are keeping 
watch over your own suffering. But even while you keep watch 
it slips away from you, and the sharper it is, the more speedily it 
comes to an end.
  Let us see to it that the recollection of those whom we have lost 
becomes a pleasant memory to us. No man reverts with pleasure 
to any subject which he will not be able to reflect upon without 
pain. So too it cannot but be that the names of those whom we 
have loved and lost come back to us with a sort of sting; but there 
is a pleasure even in this sting.
  For, as my friend Attalus[2] used to say: “The remembrance of 
lost friends is pleasant in the same way that certain fruits have an 
agreeably acid taste, or as in extremely old wines it is their very 
bitterness that pleases us. Indeed, after a certain lapse of time, 
every thought that gave pain is quenched, and the pleasure comes 
to us unalloyed.”
  If we take the word of Attalus for it, “to think of friends who 
are alive and well is like enjoying a meal of cakes and honey; the 
recollection of friends who have passed away gives a pleasure that 
is not without a touch of bitterness. Yet who will deny that even 
these things, which are bitter and contain an element of sourness, 
do serve to arouse the stomach?”
  For my part, I do not agree with him. To me, the thought of my 
dead friends is sweet and appealing. For I have had them as if I 
should one day lose them; I have lost them as if I have them still.
282 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  Therefore, Lucilius, act as befits your own serenity of mind, 
and cease to put a wrong interpretation on the gifts of Fortune. 
Fortune has taken away, but Fortune has given.
  Let us greedily enjoy our friends, because we do not know how 
long this privilege will be ours. Let us think how often we shall 
leave them when we go upon distant journeys, and how often we 
shall fail to see them when we tarry together in the same place; 
we shall thus understand that we have lost too much of their time 
while they were alive.
  But will you tolerate men who are most careless of their 
friends, and then mourn them most abjectly, and do not love 
anyone unless they have lost him? The reason why they lament 
too unrestrainedly at such times is that they are afraid lest men 
doubt whether they really have loved; all too late they seek for 
proofs of their emotions.
  If we have other friends, we surely deserve ill at their hands 
and think ill of them, if they are of so little account that they fail 
to console us for the loss of one. If, on the other hand, we have no 
other friends, we have injured ourselves more than Fortune has 
injured us; since Fortune has robbed us of one friend, but we have 
robbed ourselves of every friend whom we have failed to make.
  Again, he who has been unable to love more than one, has had 
none too much love even for that one.[3] If a man who has lost his 
one and only tunic through robbery chooses to bewail his plight 
rather than look about him for some way to escape the cold, or 
for something with which to cover his shoulders, would you not 
think him an utter fool?
  You have buried one whom you loved; look about for someone 
to love. It is better to replace your friend than to weep for him.
  What I am about to add is, I know, a very hackneyed remark, 
but I shall not omit it simply because it is a common phrase: a man 
ends his grief by the mere passing of time, even if he has not ended 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 283

it of his own accord. But the most shameful cure for sorrow, in 
the case of a sensible man, is to grow weary of sorrowing. I should 
prefer you to abandon grief, rather than have grief abandon you; 
and you should stop grieving as soon as possible, since, even if 
you wish to do so, it is impossible to keep it up for a long time.
  Our forefathers[4] have enacted that, in the case of women, a 
year should be the limit for mourning; not that they needed to 
mourn for so long, but that they should mourn no longer. In the 
case of men, no rules are laid down, because to mourn at all is not 
regarded as honourable. For all that, what woman can you show 
me, of all the pathetic females that could scarcely be dragged away 
from the funeral-pile or torn from the corpse, whose tears have 
lasted a whole month? Nothing becomes offensive so quickly as 
grief; when fresh, it finds someone to console it and attracts one 
or another to itself; but after becoming chronic, it is ridiculed, 
and rightly. For it is either assumed or foolish.
  He who writes these words to you is no other than I, who wept 
so excessively for my dear friend Annaeus Serenus[5] that, in spite 
of my wishes, I must be included among the examples of men 
who have been overcome by grief. Today, however, I condemn 
this act of mine, and I understand that the reason why I lamented 
so greatly was chiefly that I had never imagined it possible for his 
death to precede mine. The only thought which occurred to my 
mind was that he was the younger, and much younger, too—as if 
the Fates kept to the order of our ages!
  Therefore let us continually think as much about our own 
mortality as about that of all those we love. In former days I ought 
to have said: “My friend Serenus is younger than I; but what does 
that matter? He would naturally die after me, but he may precede 
me.” It was just because I did not do this that I was unprepared 
when Fortune dealt me the sudden blow. Now is the time for you 
to reflect, not only that all things are mortal, but also that their 
284   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

mortality is subject to no fixed law. Whatever can happen at any 
time can happen today.
   Let us therefore reflect, my beloved Lucilius, that we shall 
soon come to the goal which this friend, to our own sorrow, has 
reached. And perhaps, if only the tale told by wise men is true[6] 
and there is a bourne to welcome us, then he whom we think we 
have lost has only been sent on ahead. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. Homer, Iliad, xix. 229 and xxiv. 602.
2. The teacher of Seneca, often mentioned by him.
3. The reason is, as Lipsius observed, that friendship is essentially a social 
  virtue, and is not confined to one object. The pretended friendship for one 
  and only one is a form of self-love, and is not unselfish love.
4. According to tradition, from the time of Numa Pompilius.
5. An intimate friend of Seneca, probably a relative, who died in the year 63 
  from eating poisoned mushrooms (Pliny, N. H. xxii. 96). Seneca dedicated 
  to Serenus several of his philosophical essays.
6. Cf. the closing chapter of the Agricola of Tacitus: si, ut sapientibus placet, 
  non cum corpore exstinguuntur magnae animae, etc.
                   LETTER 64
           On the Philosopher’s Task
                       A

Yesterday you were with us. You might complain if I said “yester-
day” merely. This is why I have added “with us.” For, so far as I am 
concerned, you are always with me. Certain friends had happened 
in, on whose account a somewhat brighter fire was laid—not the 
kind that generally bursts from the kitchen chimneys of the rich 
and scares the watch, but the moderate blaze which means that 
guests have come.
  Our talk ran on various themes, as is natural at a dinner; it 
pursued no chain of thought to the end, but jumped from one 
topic to another. We then had read to us a book by Quintus 
Sextius the Elder.[1] He is a great man, if you have any confidence 
in my opinion, and a real Stoic, though he himself denies it.
  Ye Gods, what strength and spirit one finds in him! This is not 
the case with all philosophers; there are some men of illustrious 
name whose writings are sapless. They lay down rules, they argue, 
and they quibble; they do not infuse spirit simply because they 
have no spirit. But when you come to read Sextius you will say: 
“He is alive; he is strong; he is free; he is more than a man; he fills 
me with a mighty confidence before I close his book.”
  I shall acknowledge to you the state of mind I am in when I read 
his works: I want to challenge every hazard; I want to cry: “Why 
keep me waiting, Fortune? Enter the lists! Behold, I am ready for 
286 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

you!” I assume the spirit of a man who seeks where he may make 
trial of himself where he may show his worth:

     And fretting ’mid the unwarlike flocks he prays
     Some foam-flecked boar may cross his path, or else
     A tawny lion stalking down the hills.[2]

  I want something to overcome, something on which I may test 
my endurance. For this is another remarkable quality that Sextius 
possesses: he will show you the grandeur of the happy life and 
yet will not make you despair of attaining it; you will understand 
that it is on high, but that it is accessible to him who has the will 
to seek it.
  And virtue herself will have the same effect upon you, of 
making you admire her and yet hope to attain her. In my own 
case, at any rate the very contemplation of wisdom takes much of 
my time; I gaze upon her with bewilderment, just as I sometimes 
gaze upon the firmament itself, which I often behold as if I saw 
it for the first time.
  Hence I worship the discoveries of wisdom and their 
discoverers; to enter, as it were, into the inheritance of many 
predecessors is a delight. It was for me that they laid up this 
treasure; it was for me that they toiled. But we should play the 
part of a careful householder; we should increase what we have 
inherited. This inheritance shall pass from me to my descendants 
larger than before. Much still remains to do, and much will always 
remain, and he who shall be born a thousand ages hence will not 
be barred from his opportunity of adding something further.
  But even if the old masters have discovered everything, one 
thing will be always new—the application and the scientific study 
and classification of the discoveries made by others. Assume that 
prescriptions have been handed down to us for the healing of the 
eyes; there is no need of my searching for others in addition; but 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 287

for all that, these prescriptions must be adapted to the particular 
disease and to the particular stage of the disease. Use this 
prescription to relieve granulation of the eyelids, that to reduce 
the swelling of the lids, this to prevent sudden pain or a rush of 
tears, that to sharpen the vision. Then compound these several 
prescriptions, watch for the right time of their application, and 
supply the proper treatment in each case.
  The cures for the spirit also have been discovered by the 
ancients; but it is our task to learn the method and the time of 
treatment.
  Our predecessors have worked much improvement, but have 
not worked out the problem. They deserve respect, however, and 
should be worshipped with a divine ritual. Why should I not keep 
statues of great men to kindle my enthusiasm, and celebrate their 
birthdays? Why should I not continually greet them with respect 
and honour? The reverence which I owe to my own teachers I owe 
in like measure to those teachers of the human race, the source 
from which the beginnings of such great blessings have flowed.
  If I meet a consul or a praetor, I shall pay him all the honour 
which his post of honour is wont to receive: I shall dismount, 
uncover, and yield the road. What, then? Shall I admit into my 
soul with less than the highest marks of respect Marcus Cato, the 
Elder and the Younger, Laelius the Wise, Socrates and Plato, Zeno 
and Cleanthes? I worship them in very truth, and always rise to 
do honour to such noble names. Farewell.

Footnotes
1. See on Ep. lix. 7. As the following sentence indicates, he seems to have 
 considered himself an eclectic in philosophy, and to have been half-Stoic, 
 half-Pythagorean.
2. Vergil, Aeneid, iv. 158 f. The boy Ascanius, at Dido’s hunt, longs for wilder 
 game than the deer and the goats.
 THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS


      Stoicism and the Art of Happiness: 
    An Interview With Donald Robertson


Donald Robertson is a cognitive behavioral psychotherapist, 
trainer, and author who specializes in the treatment of anxiety 
and the use of CBT. He is the author of Stoicism and the Art of 
Happiness, The Philosophy of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy: Stoic 
Philosophy as Rational and Cognitive Psychotherapy, and several 
other books. His website is philosophy-of-cbt.com.

Before we get into it, can you briefly tell us how did your 
interest in Stoicism begin? I remember reading that you were 
exploring Buddhism but found it unsatisfactory and turned 
to Stoicism? Can you tell us about that?
  Well, when I was in my early twenties, I studied philosophy at 
Aberdeen University. I also took courses in the history of Indian 
religions there, and was involved with the Buddhist society. I had a 
general interest in things like self-hypnosis, meditation, self-help, 
psychotherapy, and philosophy. These things felt like they were all 
competing for my attention, though, and I wanted to somehow 
integrate them. It wasn’t until after I left university and began 
working as a counsellor and psychotherapist that I discovered 
Stoicism. It was one of the few philosophies I knew absolutely 
nothing about but it turned out to be the one I’d been looking for 
all along! I stumbled across Pierre Hadot’s book Plotinus or the 
       THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | DONALD ROBERTSON 289

Simplicity of Vision and that led me to read another three books 
by him that deal more with Stoicism. It seemed to offer a practical 
philosophy of life that was more familiar to me than Buddhism, 
more rational, and more down-to-earth. There’s a sense of déjà vu 
when you first begin to study Stoicism because our culture is full 
of things influenced by it. The first thing it made me think of was 
the scene about carpe diem from Robin Williams’ film The Dead 
Poets’ Society. Of course, that phrase, seize the day, comes from 
the Odes of Horace, and Horace had studied and wrote about 
Stoicism, as well as the Epicurean philosophy. Stoicism reminded 
me of other tropes familiar from poetry and later authors, such 
as memento mori, ubi sunt, and the view from above. It seemed 
like a more practical and down-to-earth alternative to modern 
academic philosophy; like a more Western alternative to Bud-
dhism; like a more rational and less faith-based alternative to 
Christianity… And of course, Stoicism was the inspiration for 
modern cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), one of my other 
major interests. However, not much had been written about the 
many parallels between them, so I started writing articles and giv-
ing talks on that subject, around 2004, which eventually evolved 
into my first book on Stoicism:The  Philosophy of CBT (2010).
  To go back to Buddhism, my father was a Freemason, and 
his interest in mysticism inspired me to begin studying Taoism, 
Hinduism, and Buddhism, among other things, when I was a 
teenager. I was initially drawn to them all to some extent but 
slowly became frustrated by the obscurity of some Eastern 
writings. The Dao De Jing, for example, says that running a state 
is like frying small fish. I had no idea what that might mean! 
Likewise, our history of religions class were told how the Dalai 
Lama had explained the Buddhist doctrine that we have no self, 
and yet somehow something that’s not a self is reincarnated, as 
like one stone hitting another stone and causing a chain reaction. 
290 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

None of us could make head nor tail of that explanation, though. 
Stoicism seemed less cryptic to me and many of the ideas and 
phrases resonated with other things I’d learned from Western 
philosophy and literature.
  Also, I believe that observing our relationship with our thoughts 
in general, with mindfulness, is far more important than periods 
of seated meditation. Whereas many people today believe that 
“mindfulness” is an ancient Buddhist invention, the truth is the 
English word was seldom used until the 1970s. It seemed to me 
that people were unwittingly Westernizing Buddhism, viewing 
it through the lens of our culture, and perhaps even imposing 
a concept of mindfulness on it that owed more to Hellenistic 
philosophies, particularly Stoicism.
  Stoicism gave me a philosophy that was consistent with my 
other interests and with many of the concepts and practices I later 
came to employ in CBT. Buddhism is a very mixed bag, and very 
diverse. There’s more than one Buddhism, if you like. However, in 
general, I felt Buddhist ethics were too focused on the individual 
attaining subjective peace of mind, nirvana, and not enough about 
the quality of our actions. Buddhist virtue is often presented as 
merely a means to the end of attaining nirvana, whereas for Stoics 
virtue is the end itself. To put it crudely, Buddhism, even of the 
Mahayana variety, seemed a good philosophy for monks but not 
for heroes. The Stoics warn us that it’s hypocrisy to accept values 
ourselves that we wouldn’t find admirable in other people and it 
seems to me that it’s not very admirable to treat virtues like justice 
as merely a means to some personal end. Stoicism, on the other 
hand, values practical wisdom and virtue and seemed to offer a 
philosophy of life that’s more actively engaged with real life, and 
other people.
       THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | DONALD ROBERTSON 291

You are a psychotherapist and have a written a fascinating book 
on the connections between cognitive behavioral therapy and 
Stoicism. Can you briefly explain what CBT is and how its 
origins are rooted in Stoicism?
  Well, it may surprise many people to learn that a form of cog-
nitive psychotherapy has actually been around since the start of 
the 20th century. For decades, the founder of what was called 
“rational psychotherapy,” a famous Swiss psychiatrist called Paul 
Dubois who was influenced by Seneca, represented the main 
rival to Freud and psychoanalysis. His approach became com-
pletely eclipsed by psychoanalysis, though. Then behavior therapy 
became popular in the late 1950s, scientific research on psycho-
therapy started to take off, and that led to a resurgence of interest 
in the use of reason in psychotherapy.
  Albert Ellis was the pioneer of the new wave of cognitive 
therapy in the 1950s and 1960s. Ellis read Marcus Aurelius as a 
youth. He later abandoned his training in psychoanalytic therapy 
to develop what he called “Rational Therapy,” or later “Rational-
Emotive Behavior Therapy” (REBT), which he said was inspired 
by Stoicism. Indeed, in addition to Ellis’ many references to the 
Stoics, REBT has many concepts and techniques, which appear 
to be derived from the Stoic literature.
  Then Aaron Beck developed “cognitive therapy” in the 1960s 
and 1970s, and he also cited the Stoics as the philosophical 
inspiration for his approach, but said very little more about them. 
By the 1990s, the more broadly defined cognitive behavioral 
therapy (CBT), which drew on Ellis, Beck, behavior therapy, 
and other authors working along similar lines, had become the 
dominant model of modern evidence-based psychotherapy.
  The central doctrine of Ellis, and later Beck, was the cognitive 
theory of emotion. This holds that our emotions are a combination 
of different factors, the main one being our thoughts or beliefs 
292 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

(cognitions). For example, Beck said that when we feel fear it’s 
because at some level we believe we’re about to be harmed. That’s 
virtually identical to the Stoic theory of fear, recorded over two 
thousand years earlier.
  This was an important innovation in modern psychotherapy 
because people tend to dismiss their problematic emotions as 
irrational and involuntary. People say “that’s just how I feel”, that 
it’s not true or false. However, if we focus instead on the beliefs 
underlying feelings such as fear, well, those are obviously true or 
false. “I’m frightened people will think I’m an idiot”; well, what if 
it turns out they actually don’t? So we can help people to articulate 
those beliefs better, and bring them into awareness. Then we can 
help them question how helpful they are, to evaluate how rational 
they are in terms of the evidence, and to carry out experiments 
in daily life to test out whether they’re true or false in practice.
  For instance, people with panic attacks very often (but not 
always) believe the sensations of pain and tightness in their 
chest, etc., are symptoms of an impending heart attack. Therapists 
nowadays will construct tests to prove to them that they’re 
mistaken: it’s just harmless anxiety, muscle tension, and nothing 
to do with having a heart attack. We now know that panic attack 
sufferers typically misinterpret their own bodily sensations in 
a threatening manner. When the belief is removed, the anxiety 
tends to diminish, and the same basically goes for feelings such 
as anger or sadness as well. Ellis oriented most of his clients to 
the fundamental concepts of cognitive therapy in their initial 
assessment sessions by teaching them the famous quote from 
Epictetus: “It’s not things that upset us, but our judgements 
about things.” I think he actually gave them that Stoic saying in 
writing to take home and read, as part of what we now call the 
“socialization” phase of treatment.
       THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | DONALD ROBERTSON 293

I’d be curious to hear from your work experience, what are 
the Stoic exercises and techniques you’ve found resonate the 
most with patients? Which ones do you see have the biggest 
positive impact?
  That’s a more complicated question than it might seem at 
first… For me the most important aspect of Stoicism isn’t the 
armamentarium of techniques but the central doctrines of their 
ethical philosophy. However, therapists have to be value-neutral, 
so we can’t really teach an ethical doctrine to clients, although I’ve 
met many clients who had already read the Stoics and thought 
that way. Stoic Ethics and the philosophy as a whole have been 
very important to my work as a therapist.
  Albert Ellis argued that it’s fundamentally having rigidly 
absolutistic demands about life that make us neurotic, such as 
“People must respect me!” That’s quite similar in some ways to 
the Stoic doctrine that emotional disturbance is caused by the 
belief that external things are intrinsically good or bad, such as 
“People disrespecting me is bad.” The Stoics teach us to think: “I’d 
prefer it if people respect me, but if they don’t that’s not worth 
getting upset about.” That’s what we call “Stoic indifference”, 
and it’s the centerpiece of their philosophy, but it’s more a value 
judgement than a technique. It actually requires adopting a set 
of moral values that are radically different from those adopted 
by the majority of people around us. The Stoics refer to this as 
undergoing “conversion” to a very different world view and set 
of values.
  On the other hand, when it comes to using Stoic techniques in 
CBT, well, we already have modern versions of many Stoic tech-
niques, which we usually have to follow closely in evidence-based 
practice as part of standard protocols. So the Stoic versions can 
inform what we do, but mainly as therapists we’re focusing on the 
294 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

modern equivalents of things like role-modelling (the Sage), or 
imaginal exposure to feared events (premeditatio malorum), etc.
  If someone asked me, though, what’s the most powerful 
technique in modern therapy, I’d say exposure therapy. It’s 
arguably the most robustly scientifically-supported technique in 
the whole field of psychotherapy research. Exposure therapy is 
just a form of behavior therapy where we ask people to repeatedly 
face their fears, for longer than normal, in a controlled manner, 
sometimes in reality and sometimes in their imagination. The 
Stoics, especially Seneca, refer many times to doing something 
very similar, with fears of poverty, exile, death, and illness, etc. 
That’s one of the most powerful strategies in modern therapy, 
right there, and it’s been around in its modern form for over half 
a century now.
  In terms of things that are more uniquely ancient, well, that 
would have to be the View from Above. That’s what Hadot called 
the practice of contemplating life as if it were being viewed from 
an Olympian perspective, high above, or viewing the present 
moment from a cosmological point of view, as very small and 
transient. There’s not really a common strategy in modern therapy 
that’s equivalent to the View from Above, unlike most other 
Stoic techniques. However, people love doing it, and they find 
it very powerful. I’ve created scripted versions of that technique 
and used it in workshops with hundreds of participants over the 
years. What we lack, therefore, is strong empirical evidence from 
controlled trials showing its benefits.

This is a question we like to ask everyone: Do you have a favor-
ite Stoic quote? Is there an exercise you find yourself going back 
to time and again?
  That changes but at the moment I like a story about Zeno of 
Citium, the founder of Stoicism, told by Diogenes Laertius. One 
       THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | DONALD ROBERTSON 295

day Zeno overheard an arrogant young man attacking the writ-
ings of the philosopher Antisthenes, doing a bit of a hatchet-job 
on them, to the amusement of a small crowd who had gathered 
around him. (Antisthenes was a prolific and accomplished writer, 
one of Socrates’ most highly-regarded followers, and had died a 
couple of generations earlier.) Zeno interrupted the young man 
and asked him what he’d learned of value from Antisthenes’ writ-
ings. He said he’d learned nothing worthwhile. Zeno replied that 
he should ashamed, therefore, to expend so much time and energy 
picking holes in the writings of a philosopher without having first 
taken time to learn what he can from him that’s actually of value. 
  I like that story because I feel that philosophical debate at its 
worst is merely nit-picking and destructive. It’s all too easy, and 
in fact lazy, to pick holes in a philosophical theory, without first 
trying to learn what you can of value from it. That’s similar to what 
philosophers sometimes call The Principle of Charity nowadays, 
that where we’re not sure what someone means, because of 
ambiguity, we should consider the most rational or favorable 
interpretation first, and give them the benefit of the doubt rather 
than assuming they’re stupid.
  The psychological exercise I go back to most often is probably 
the one I call The Stoic Fork, which is the first one mentioned in 
Epictetus’ Handbook, and the one he refers to most frequently in 
The Discourses. We’re told to repeatedly remind ourselves of the 
distinction between our own actions and things that happen to us, 
or between what’s “up to us” and what is not. That’s good advice 
in most situations, but especially when you’re feeling upset about 
something or stressed.

You’ve been active in the Stoicism community for a long time. 
You’ve published several books, you run a Facebook group, 
you’re active on reddit. What do you think about the state of 
296 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

the Stoicism community today? Where do you see it going in 
the future?
  I think the Stoic presence online has surprised everyone by 
its growth. When I wrote Stoicism and the Art of Happiness I 
talked about how there was a Yahoo group with over a thousand 
members. Well, now our Facebook group is actually approach-
ing twenty thousand members. The Stoics, particularly, Epictetus, 
warn us not to be diverted by trivial philosophical chit-chat and 
rhetoric. Well, there’s definitely a tension between that and the 
way social media works. People don’t seem to be able to resist the 
urge to post dumb jokes and snarky comments in response to 
serious questions about life and philosophy. That’s okay in mod-
eration, perhaps, but sometimes it seems to predominate and can 
stifle more meaningful discussion about Stoicism online. 
  Then at the opposite end of the scale we have the people who 
get into long-winded academic quibbles, again something the 
Stoics keep warning us to avoid. However, overall, I believe that 
the Internet is a force for good because it allows people to form 
communities dedicated to Stoicism whereas twenty years ago 
these people would perhaps have been isolated in that regard, 
and left to study Stoicism alone, without the support and good 
ideas that can come from others.

Going back to therapy, there are now over 40 million adults in 
the United States who are affected with anxiety. You special-
ize in anxiety treatment and I would be interested to know 
what you think more people need to know about anxiety and 
maybe what role Stoicism can have in helping with some of 
those issues people face?
  Oh boy, where do I start? I guess the main thing I’d say is very 
general: that we know so much about anxiety now that it really 
does feel that we should be teaching more of it to our children. 
       THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | DONALD ROBERTSON 297

Then on to specifics: anxiety abates naturally over time, under 
the right conditions. That’s been known for over half a century, 
we call it the “habituation” of anxiety. If you take someone with a 
severe spider phobia and put a spider on their hand what happens 
to their heart rate? It goes up. It will roughly double within thirty 
seconds or so. However, what happens to their heart rate next? 
Most anxiety clients will say “Um, it gets worse?” Actually, it will 
very slowly start to reduce back toward its normal resting level or 
thereabouts. That normally takes roughly half an hour, although 
it can vary a lot. Most people would “escape” the situation long 
before then, though, by brushing the spider off and running out 
the door. So their anxiety will only reduce slightly and will con-
tinue to be a problem in the future. However, suppose you have 
someone else there encouraging you to persevere a bit longer, 
usually a therapist, you wait long enough for your anxiety to at 
least half, and you don’t do anything else that might interfere with 
the process. Well then the next time you encounter a spider, your 
heart rate will still increase, but not as much, and it will reduce 
more quickly. And if you keep doing that repeatedly, exposing 
yourself to your fears for longer than normal, then pretty soon 
your anxiety will permanently reduce to a fairly negligible level. 
Everyone should know that’s how anxiety, in its simplest form, 
works. Of course, there are more complex forms of anxiety than 
simple animal phobias, and so sometimes we need to do other 
things as well, but exposure therapy of that kind is the basis of 
most modern forms of anxiety treatment.
  How does Stoicism help? Well, it teaches us a great many 
things of value in relation to anxiety. As we know, it teaches us 
to remember what’s up to us and what isn’t, which I believe is 
important and can be very powerful. However, it also teaches 
a basic strategy that Epictetus tells his students to use first if 
their emotions are overwhelming. He says we should take a step 
298 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

back from our thoughts and remind ourselves that they’re just 
impressions in our mind and not literally the things they claim 
to represent. Modern therapists call this “cognitive distancing” 
and there’s growing evidence that it’s one of the simplest and most 
powerful ways of responding to emotional distress. Everyone 
should learn how to do that too.

Do you have a daily Stoic routine? What does it look like if 
you do? Or is there an exercise that you’d like to incorporate 
in 2017 that you haven’t already?
  Yes. I spent years studying training methods for psychologi-
cal skills, and teaching these to other therapists. So I became 
more interested in the general format of skills training. There’s a 
great book on that, an overlooked classic, called Stress Inoculation 
Training, written by one of the pioneers of CBT, Donald Meichen-
baum, in the 1980s. It’s good to have a structure, so I incorporated 
some elements of his behavioral skills training framework into the 
Stoic Week Handbook and our Stoic Mindfulness and Resilience 
Training (SMRT) course.
  In the evening, I try to review the events of the day in my mind 
three times, and to see what I can learn from how things went, 
how close I came to living in line with my core values, and achiev-
ing specific goals. The next morning, influenced by that, I try to 
plan the day ahead and to prepare in advance for the possibility 
of failure or setbacks. Then during the day, I try to be mindful of 
other Stoic concepts and practices, and particularly how my value 
judgements are affecting my feelings, and whether I’m slipping 
into placing more value on external things than upon my own 
character and intentions. That forms a kind of ongoing learning 
cycle: preparation, application, review, and repeat…
  For the future, I’d like to try to focus more on Stoic empathy. 
This is an integral part of Stoic Ethics, and heavily indebted to 
       THOUGHTS FROM MODERN STOICS | DONALD ROBERTSON 299

Socrates. The Stoics try to imagine other people as realistically 
as possible and to understand how their values, and errors, are 
influencing their behavior. As a kind of coping statement or 
maxim, Epictetus taught his students to say “It seemed right 
to him”, when faced with someone who is upsetting you. That 
doesn’t stop us challenging or opposing bad behavior but it should 
encourage us to try to understand other people and to see them as 
mistaken rather than merely wicked. I think that’s a much more 
helpful way to deal with conflict. There are many more strategies 
recommended by the Stoics for dealing with other people and I’m 
particularly interested in this interpersonal dimension of their 
teachings.

What’s next for you?
  I’m organizing next year’s Stoicon 2017 conference in Toronto. 
So that should keep me pretty busy! I emigrated from the UK 
to Canada a few years ago and I’ve been living in Nova Scotia. 
However, I’m planning to move on soon and start a new training 
business, teaching different evidence-based psychological skills 
to the general public and corporate clients. I’m hoping to incor-
porate Stoicism into that too. I’m also working on some ideas for 
a couple of new books on philosophy, probably one going into 
a bit more detail about how to do various Stoic psychological 
exercises, written in very plain language. I have a five-year-old 
daughter and I find myself increasingly wanting to write things 
that she can read. She’s a big fan of Hercules and Diogenes, and 
she quite likes Socrates as well. I turn anecdotes about the Stoics 
and other ancient philosophers into stories for her, and adults 
seem to like those too. So I’m hoping to try out a new style of 
writing in some of my books. 
300 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

Finally, is there a message for the Stoicism community at 
large—that you’d like to give? 
  Yes. I’d like to remind everyone that Stoicism is first and fore-
most an ethical philosophy. It’s a radical theory about the nature 
of the good, or what’s most important in life. The psychological 
techniques are all subordinate to that. That’s not to say people 
can’t cherry-pick concepts and techniques from Stoicism but the 
deeper worldview and set of values is, in my opinion, of much 
greater value at the end of the day.
  I’d also observe that Stoicism is growing in popularity and social 
media is a big part of that. Technology is bringing people together 
like never before. But our greatest strength is also our greatest 
weakness. There’s a temptation to get diverted by academic chit-
chat about Stoicism and memes and superficial things. It requires 
self-discipline to remain focused and to make social media work 
for us, rather than against us, especially as groups grow larger and 
larger and risk being flooded with trivia. Stoicism offers powerful 
ideas about empathy and community, which can and should guide 
us in making our online life more harmonious and conducive to 
wisdom and virtue. 
                   LETTER 65
               On the First Cause
                       A

[Note from editor: For many readers, this is one of the more con-
fusing and abstract letters. Feel free to skip and return later, if that 
holds true for you. The more tactical and actionable “PROFILES OF 
MODERN-DAY STOICS” follows immediately on pg 311.] 

I shared my time yesterday with ill health;[1] it claimed for itself 
all the period before noon; in the afternoon, however, it yielded to 
me. And so I first tested my spirit by reading; then, when reading 
was found to be possible, I dared to make more demands upon 
the spirit, or perhaps I should say, to make more concessions to 
it. I wrote a little, and indeed with more concentration than usual, 
for I am struggling with a difficult subject and do not wish to be 
downed. In the midst of this, some friends visited me, with the 
purpose of employing force and of restraining me, as if I were a 
sick man indulging in some excess.
  So conversation was substituted for writing; and from this con-
versation I shall communicate to you the topic which is still the 
subject of debate; for we have appointed you referee.[2] You have 
more of a task on your hands than you suppose, for the argument 
is threefold.
  Our Stoic philosophers, as you know, declare that there are two 
things in the universe which are the source of everything—namely, 
302 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

cause and matter.[3] Matter lies sluggish, a substance ready for any 
use, but sure to remain unemployed if no one sets it in motion. 
Cause, however, by which we mean reason, moulds matter and 
turns it in whatever direction it will, producing thereby various 
concrete results. Accordingly, there must be, in the case of each 
thing, that from which it is made, and, next, an agent by which it 
is made. The former is its material, the latter its cause.
  All art is but imitation of nature; therefore, let me apply these 
statements of general principles to the things which have to be 
made by man. A statue, for example, has afforded matter which 
was to undergo treatment at the hands of the artist, and has had 
an artist who was to give form to the matter. Hence, in the case of 
the statue, the material was bronze, the cause was the workman. 
And so it goes with all things—they consist of that which is made 
and of the maker.
  The Stoics believe in one cause only—the maker; but Aristotle 
thinks that the word “cause” can be used in three ways: “The first 
cause,” he says, “is the actual matter, without which nothing can 
be created. The second is the workman. The third is the form, 
which is impressed upon every work—a statue, for example.” This 
last is what Aristotle calls the idos.[4] “There is, too,” says he, “a 
fourth—the purpose of the work as a whole.”
  Now I shall show you what this last means. Bronze is the “first 
cause” of the statue, for it could never have been made unless there 
had been something from which it could be cast and moulded. 
The “second cause” is the artist; for without the skilled hands of a 
workman that bronze could not have been shaped to the outlines 
of the statue. The “third cause” is the form, inasmuch as our statue 
could never be called The Lance-Bearer or The Boy Binding his 
Hair[5] had not this special shape been stamped upon it. The 
“fourth cause” is the purpose of the work. For if this purpose 
had not existed, the statue would not have been made.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 303

  Now what is this purpose? It is that which attracted the artist 
which he followed when he made the statue. It may have been 
money, if he has made it for sale; or renown, if he has worked for 
reputation; or religion, if he has wrought it as a gift for a temple. 
Therefore this also is a cause contributing towards the making of 
the statue; or do you think that we should avoid including, among 
the causes of a thing which has been made, that element without 
which the thing in question would not have been made?
  To these four Plato adds a fifth cause—the pattern which he 
himself calls the “idea”; for it is this that the artist gazed upon[6] 
when he created the work which he had decided to carry out. Now 
it makes no difference whether he has this pattern outside himself, 
that he may direct his glance to it, or within himself, conceived 
and placed there by himself. God has within himself these patterns 
of all things, and his mind comprehends the harmonies and the 
measures of the whole totality of things which are to be carried 
out; he is filled with these shapes which Plato calls the “ideas,”—
imperishable, unchangeable, not subject to decay. And therefore, 
though men die, humanity itself, or the idea of man, according to 
which man is moulded, lasts on, and though men toil and perish, 
it suffers no change.
  Accordingly, there are five causes, as Plato says:[7] the material, 
the agent, the make-up, the model, and the end in view. Last 
comes the result of all these. Just as in the case of the statue—to 
go back to the figure with which we began—the material is the 
bronze, the agent is the artist, the make-up is the form which is 
adapted to the material, the model is the pattern imitated by the 
agent, the end in view is the purpose in the maker’s mind, and, 
finally, the result of all these is the statue itself.
  The universe also, in Plato’s opinion, possesses all these 
elements. The agent is God; the source, matter; the form, the 
shape and the arrangement of the visible world. The pattern is 
304 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

doubtless the model according to which God has made this great 
and most beautiful creation.
  The purpose is his object in so doing. Do you ask what God’s 
purpose is? It is goodness. Plato, at any rate, says: “What was God’s 
reason for creating the world? God is good, and no good person 
is grudging of anything that is good. Therefore, God made it the 
best world possible.” Hand down your opinion, then, O judge; 
state who seems to you to say what is truest, and not who says 
what is absolutely true. For to do that is as far beyond our ken 
as truth itself.
  This throng of causes, defined by Aristotle and by Plato, 
embraces either too much or too little.[8] For if they regard as 
“causes” of an object that is to be made everything without which 
the object cannot be made, they have named too few. Time must 
be included among the causes; for nothing can be made without 
time. They must also include place; for if there be no place where a 
thing can be made, it will not be made. And motion too; nothing is 
either made or destroyed without motion. There is no art without 
motion, no change of any kind.
  Now, however, I am searching for the first, the general cause; 
this must be simple, inasmuch as matter, too, is simple. Do we 
ask what cause is? It is surely Creative Reason,[9]—in other words, 
God. For those elements to which you referred are not a great 
series of independent causes; they all hinge on one alone, and 
that will be the creative cause.
  Do you maintain that form is a cause? This is only what the 
artist stamps upon his work; it is part of a cause, but not the cause. 
Neither is the pattern a cause, but an indispensable tool of the 
cause. His pattern is as indispensable to the artist as the chisel or 
the file; without these, art can make no progress. But for all that, 
these things are neither parts of the art, nor causes of it.
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 305

  “Then,” perhaps you will say, “the purpose of the artist, that 
which leads him to undertake to create something, is the cause.” It 
may be a cause; it is not, however, the efficient cause, but only an 
accessory cause. But there are countless accessory causes; what we 
are discussing is the general cause. Now the statement of Plato and 
Aristotle is not in accord with their usual penetration, when they 
maintain that the whole universe, the perfectly wrought work, is 
a cause. For there is a great difference between a work and the 
cause of a work.
  Either give your opinion, or, as is easier in cases of this kind, 
declare that the matter is not clear and call for another hearing.
[10] But you will reply: “What pleasure do you get from wasting 
your time on these problems, which relieve you of none of your 
emotions, rout none of your desires?” So far as I am concerned, I 
treat and discuss them as matters which contribute greatly toward 
calming the spirit, and I search myself first, and then the world 
about me.
  And not even now am I, as you think, wasting my time. For all 
these questions, provided that they be not chopped up and torn 
apart into such unprofitable refinements, elevate and lighten the 
soul, which is weighted down by a heavy burden and desires to 
be freed and to return to the elements of which it was once a part. 
For this body of ours is a weight upon the soul and its penance; 
as the load presses down the soul is crushed and is in bondage, 
unless philosophy has come to its assistance and has bid it take 
fresh courage by contemplating the universe, and has turned it 
from things earthly to things divine. There it has its liberty, there 
it can roam abroad;[11] meantime it escapes the custody in which 
it is bound, and renews its life in heaven.
  Just as skilled workmen, who have been engaged upon some 
delicate piece of work which wearies their eyes with straining, if 
the light which they have is niggardly or uncertain, go forth into 
306 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

the open air and in some park devoted to the people’s recreation 
delight their eyes in the generous light of day; so the soul, 
imprisoned as it has been in this gloomy and darkened house, 
seeks the open sky whenever it can, and in the contemplation of 
the universe finds rest.
  The wise man, the seeker after wisdom, is bound closely, 
indeed, to his body, but he is an absentee so far as his better self 
is concerned, and he concentrates his thoughts upon lofty things. 
Bound, so to speak, to his oath of allegiance, he regards the period 
of life as his term of service. He is so trained that he neither loves 
nor hates life; he endures a mortal lot, although he knows that an 
ampler lot is in store for him.
  Do you forbid me to contemplate the universe? Do you compel 
me to withdraw from the whole and restrict me to a part? May 
I not ask what are the beginnings of all things, who moulded 
the universe, who took the confused and conglomerate mass of 
sluggish matter, and separated it into its parts? May I not inquire 
who is the Master-Builder of this universe, how the mighty bulk 
was brought under the control of law and order, who gathered 
together the scattered atoms, who separated the disordered 
elements and assigned an outward form to elements that lay in 
one vast shapelessness? Or whence came all the expanse of light? 
And whether is it fire, or even brighter than fire?[12]
  Am I not to ask these questions? Must I be ignorant of the 
heights whence I have descended? Whether I am to see this world 
but once, or to be born many times? What is my destination 
afterwards? What abode awaits my soul on its release from the 
laws of slavery among men? Do you forbid me to have a share in 
heaven? In other words, do you bid me live with my head bowed 
down?
  No, I am above such an existence; I was born to a greater destiny 
than to be a mere chattel of my body, and I regard this body as 
                           Moral Letters to Lucilius 307

nothing but a chain[13] which manacles my freedom. Therefore, 
I offer it as a sort of buffer to fortune, and shall allow no wound 
to penetrate through to my soul. For my body is the only part of 
me which can suffer injury. In this dwelling, which is exposed to 
peril, my soul lives free.
  Never shall this flesh drive me to feel fear or to assume any 
pretence that is unworthy of a good man. Never shall I lie in order 
to honour this petty body. When it seems proper, I shall sever my 
connexion with it. And at present, while we are bound together, 
our alliance shall nevertheless not be one of equality; the soul 
shall bring all quarrels before its own tribunal. To despise our 
bodies is sure freedom.
  To return to our subject; this freedom will be greatly helped 
by the contemplation of which we were just speaking. All things 
are made up of matter and of God;[14] God controls matter, which 
encompasses him and follows him as its guide and leader. And 
that which creates, in other words, God, is more powerful and 
precious than matter, which is acted upon by God. 
  God’s place in the universe corresponds to the soul’s relation to 
man. World-matter corresponds to our mortal body; therefore let 
the lower serve the higher. Let us be brave in the face of hazards. 
Let us not fear wrongs, or wounds, or bonds, or poverty. And what 
is death? It is either the end, or a process of change. I have no fear 
of ceasing to exist; it is the same as not having begun. Nor do I 
shrink from changing into another state, because I shall, under 
no conditions, be as cramped as I am now. Farewell.

Footnotes
  1. For Seneca’s troubles in this regard see also Epp. liv. and civ.
  2. The arbiter was a judge appointed to try a case according to bona fides 
  (equity), as contrasted with the iudex proper, whose duty was defined by 
  the magistrate.
  3. See Zeller’s Stoics (translated by Reichel), pp. 139 ff.
  4. The statue figure is a frequent one in philosophy; cf. Ep. ix. 5. The “form” 
  of Aristotle goes back to the “idea” of Plato. These four causes are the 
308   THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

   causes of Aristotle, matter (ὕλη), form (εἶδος), force (τὸ κινοῦν), and the 
   end (τὸ τέλος); when they all concur, we pass from possibility to fact. 
   Aristotle gives eight categories in Phys. 225 b 5; and ten in Categ. 1 b 25—
   substance, quantity, quality, relation, place, time, situation, possession, 
   action, passion. For a definition of εἶδος see Aristotle,Phys  190 b 20 
   γίγνεται πᾶν ἔκ τε τοῦ ὑποκειμένου καὶ τῆς μορφῆς (i.e. τοῦ εἴδους).
  5. Well-known works of Polyclitus, fifth century B.C.
  6. Explaining the derivation of the Greek word—ιδεῖν, “to behold.” For a 
   discussion of Plato’s “ideas,” those “independent, separate, self-existing, 
   perfect, and eternal essences” (Republic vi. and vii.) see Adam, The 
   Republic of Plato, ii. 168-179. According to Adam, Plato owes his theory of 
   ideas to Socrates, the Eleatics, and the study of geometry; but his debt is 
   not so great as his discovery.
  7. i.e., the four categories as established by Aristotle, plus the “idea” of Plato.
  8. The Stoic view (see § 2 of this letter), besides making the four categories of 
   “substance,” “form,” “variety,” and “variety of relation,” regarded material 
   things as the only things which possessed being. The Stoics thus differ 
   from Aristotle and Plato in holding that nothing is real except matter; 
   besides, they relate everything to one ultimate cause, the acting force or 
   efficient cause.
  9. i.e., the λόγος σπερματικός, the creative force in nature, that is, 
   Providence, or the will of Zeus.
10. i.e., restate the question and hear the evidence again.
11. According to the Stoics the soul, which consisted of fire or breath and 
   was a part of the divine essence, rose at death into the ether and became 
   one with the stars. Seneca elsewhere (Consolatio ad Marciam) states that 
   the soul went through a sort of purifying process—a view which may 
   have had some influence on Christian thought. The souls of the good, the 
   Stoics maintained, were destined to last until the end of the world, the 
   souls of the bad to be extinguished before that time.
12. The sequence of elements from the earth outwards and upwards was 
   earth, water, air, and fire. The upper fire was ether. Zeno (quoted by 
   Cicero, Acad. i. 11. 39) refused to acknowledge a fifth essence:statuebat  
   enim ignem esse ipsam naturam, quae quaeque gigneret, et mentem et 
   sensus.
13. The “prison of the body” is a frequent figure in Stoic as in all philosophy. 
   See, for example, § 16 of this letter, “the soul in bondage.”
14. A restatement of the previous remark made in this letter; see note on § 11.
              

            PROFILES OF 
    MODERN-DAY STOICS
                        A
The following pages profile modern-day stoics found inTools  of 
Titans: The Tactics, Routines, and Habits of Billionaires, Icons, and 
World-Class Performers. These profiles also include some of their 
favorite tools and most amusing stories, anecdotes, and quirks. 
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. Even Stoics deserve 
a laugh once in a while, n'est-ce pas? 
  Here’s how they’re spread across the volumes of The Tao 
of Seneca:

  Volume 1 — Jocko Willink, Derek Sivers, Sebastian Junger
  Volume 2 — Tony Robbins, Chris Sacca, Amelia Boone
  Volume 3 — Arnold Schwarzenegger, Naval Ravikant

  Not all of the people above would describe themselves as 
“Stoic,” but they exhibit the qualities Seneca, Marcus Aurelius, 
and Epictetus would have recognized as such.
  All are incredible.

  Enjoy,
  Tim Ferriss

  P.S. “TIM” or “TF” in the text refers to my words or commen-
tary, as I interviewed the people profiled. Their full 2–3-hour 
interviews can all be found at tim.blog/podcast. 
JOCKO WILLINK

Jocko Willink (FB/TW: @jockowillink; jockopodcast.com) is 
one of the scariest human beings imaginable. He is a lean 230 
pounds. He is a Brazilian jiu-jitsu black belt who used to tap out 
20 Navy SEALs per workout. He is a legend in the special opera-
tions world, and his eyes look through you more than at you. His 
interview with me was the first interview he ever did, and it took 
the Internet by storm.
  Jocko spent 20 years in the U.S. Navy and commanded SEAL 
Team Three’s Task Unit Bruiser, the most highly decorated special 
operations unit from the Iraq war. Upon returning to the United 
States, Jocko served as the officer-in-charge of training for all West 
Coast SEAL Teams, designing and implementing some of the 
most challenging and realistic combat training in the world. After 
retiring from the Navy, he co-founded Echelon Front, a leadership 
and management consulting company, and co-authored the #1 
New York Times bestseller Extreme Ownership: How U.S. Navy 
SEALs Lead and Win. He now discusses war, leadership, busi-
ness, and life in his top-rated podcast, Jocko Podcast. He is an 
avid surfer, a husband, and the father of four “highly motivated” 
children.

DISCIPLINE EQUALS FREEDOM
To “what would you put on a billboard?” Jocko responded: 
“My mantra is a very simple one, and that’s ‘Discipline equals 
freedom.’ ”
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 313

  TF: I interpret this to mean, among other things, that you can 
use positive constraints to increase perceived free will and results. 
Freeform days might seem idyllic, but they are paralyzing due 
to continual paradox of choice (e.g., “What should I do now?”) 
and decision fatigue (e.g., “What should I have for breakfast?”). 
In contrast, something as simple as pre-scheduled workouts acts 
as scaffolding around which you can more effectively plan and 
execute your day. This gives you a greater sense of agency and 
feeling of freedom. Jocko adds, “It also means that if you want 
freedom in life—be that financial freedom, more free time, or 
even freedom from sickness and poor health—you can only 
achieve these things through discipline.”

“TWO IS ONE AND ONE IS NONE.”
This is a common expression among SEALs. Jocko explains: “It 
just means, ‘Have a backup.’ ” If you have two of something, you 
will break or lose one and end up with one remaining; if you have 
one, you will break or lose it and be screwed. One of my favorite 
Franz Kafka quotes is related: “Better to have, and not need, than 
to need, and not have.” Where can you eliminate “single points of 
failure” in your life or business? Jocko adds, “And don’t just have 
backup gear—have a backup plan to handle likely contingencies.”

EXPOSING YOURSELF TO DARKNESS TO SEE THE LIGHT
“I think that in order to truly experience the light and the bright, 
you have to see the darkness. I think if you shield yourself from 
the darkness, you’ll not appreciate—and fully understand—the 
beauty of life.”
  On July 4, 2016, I texted Jocko to thank him for his service. We 
exchanged hellos, and I asked him how he and his family were 
doing. He responded: “All good here. With the exception of the 
314 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

book I’m reading about the My Lai massacre. What a nightmare. 
Thankful for what we have. . . .”
  All of the interviewees in this book have methods for achieve-
ment. Most who’ve been successful for decades also have methods 
to cultivate gratitude. Remembering his friends who made the 
ultimate sacrifice in war, Jocko is truly grateful for every sunrise, 
every smile, every laugh, every breath. He also deliberately and 
regularly exposes himself to the stories of those who have been 
subjected to horror, misfortune, and darkness. If you’re open to 
reading a “dark” book to help put things in perspective, If This Is 
a Man and The Truce (often combined into one volume) by Primo 
Levi are two of my favorites. They were recommended to me by 
the illusionist David Blaine, who has Levi’s concentration camp 
number tattooed on his arm. When I asked him, “What did you 
learn from the book?” he answered: “Everything.”

IF YOU WANT TO BE TOUGHER, BE TOUGHER
“If you want to be tougher mentally, it is simple: Be tougher. 
Don’t meditate on it.” These words of Jocko’s helped one lis-
tener—a drug addict—get sober after many failed attempts. The 
simple logic struck a chord: “Being tougher” was, more than any-
thing, a decision to be tougher. It’s possible to immediately “be 
tougher,” starting with your next decision. Have trouble saying 
“no” to dessert? Be tougher. Make that your starting decision. 
Feeling winded? Take the stairs anyway. Ditto. It doesn’t matter 
how small or big you start. If you want to be tougher, be tougher.

“TAKE EXTREME OWNERSHIP OF YOUR WORLD”
While Jocko was a SEAL Task Unit commander, the SEAL 
Commodore, who led all SEALs on the west coast, would hold 
meetings with all the Task Unit commanders to assess the needs 
and problems of the troops, then marshal resources to help them:
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 315

  “[The SEAL Commodore] would go around the room, because 
he wants to get direct feedback from the frontline leaders. These 
guys are my peers. He’d ask one of the leaders, ‘What do you 
need?’ and the leader would say, ‘Well, the boots that we have are 
okay in the hot weather, but we’re getting ready to be in a cooler 
environment. We need new boots, and we need them this week 
before our next training block.’ The Commodore would reply, 
‘Okay, got it.’ Then he’d ask the next person, who’d say, ‘When 
we’re out at the desert training facility and there’s no Internet, 
our guys are disconnected. We really need to get WiFi out there.’ 
‘Okay, got it.’ The next guy would say, ‘We need more helicopter 
training support, because we don’t feel like we’re working around 
helicopters enough. We really need that.’ The Commodore would 
agree to take care of that as well. Eventually, he’d get to me.
  “The Commodore would say: ‘Jocko, what do you need?’ and 
I would say, ‘We’re good, sir.’ The implication is obvious: If I have 
problems, I’m going to handle them. I’m going to take care of 
them, and I’m not going to complain. I took extreme ownership 
of my world. The way that worked was twofold. When I did need 
something, it was something significant, it was something real. 
And when I told the Commodore, ‘Hey, boss, we need this right 
here,’ I would get it almost instantaneously because he knew that 
I really, truly needed it.
  “You can’t blame your boss for not giving you the support 
you need. Plenty of people will say, ‘It’s my boss’s fault.’ No, it’s 
actually your fault because you haven’t educated him, you haven’t 
influenced him, you haven’t explained to him in a manner he 
understands why you need this support that you need. That’s 
extreme ownership. Own it all.”
316 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

A GOOD REASON TO BE AN EARLY RISER
“I’m up and getting after it by 4:45. I like to have that psychological 
win over the enemy. For me, when I wake up in the morning—and 
I don’t know why—I’m thinking about the enemy and what they’re 
doing. I know I’m not on active duty anymore, but it’s still in my 
head: that there’s a guy in a cave somewhere, he’s rocking back 
and forth, and he’s got a machine gun in one hand and a grenade 
in the other. He’s waiting for me, and we’re going to meet. When 
I wake up in the morning, I’m thinking to myself: What can I do 
to be ready for that moment, which is coming? That propels me 
out of bed.”
  TF: This story has compelled so many listeners to start waking 
early that there is a #0445club hashtag on Twitter, featuring 
pictures of wristwatches. It’s still going strong more than a year 
after the podcast.

POMEGRANATE WHITE TEA AND BEYOND
Jocko drinks no coffee and next-to-no caffeine. His one indulgence 
is occasional pomegranate white tea (“. . . which I believe hits your 
soul pretty well”). But . . .
  “[During] my first deployment to Iraq, we did longer patrols in 
the vehicles, and I would have—in a series of pouches hanging in 
front of my seat—a flashbang grenade and then another flashbang 
grenade, and then a frag grenade, which is the grenade that kills 
people, and then another frag grenade. And then, the next three 
pouches were Red Bull, Red Bull, Red Bull.”
  TIM: “But you’re an intense guy, which is meant as a compliment. 
What are you like on three Red Bulls?”
  JOCKO: “More Jo c ko.”
  TF: Jocko doesn’t want to need caffeine. On a similar note, 
another SEAL friend who regularly eats only one meal per day 
sent me the following: “I think it’s hilarious when some [special 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 317

operations] guys get grumpy if they don’t have protein powder 
every 2 hours. I have a huge advantage if I can turn anything into 
fuel, including garbage, or go without food.”

WHAT MAKES A GOOD COMMANDER?
“The immediate answer that comes to mind is ‘humility.’ Because 
you’ve got to be humble, and you’ve got to be coachable. . . . 
Later, when I was running training, we would fire a couple leaders 
from every SEAL Team because they couldn’t lead. And 99.9% of 
the time, it wasn’t a question of their ability to shoot a weapon, 
it wasn’t because they weren’t in good physical shape, it wasn’t 
because they were unsafe. It was almost always a question of their 
ability to listen, open their mind, and see that, maybe, there’s a 
better way to do things. That is from a lack of humility. . . .
  “We put these guys through very realistic and challenging 
training, to say the least. If there are any guys who went through 
training when I was running it, right now they’re chuckling 
because it was very realistic. In fact, it was borderline psychotic. 
We put so much pressure on these guys and overwhelmed them. 
A good leader would come back and say [something like one of 
the following], ‘I lost it, I didn’t control it. I didn’t do a good job. 
I didn’t see what was happening. I got too absorbed in this little 
tiny tactical situation that was right in front of me.’ Either they’d 
make those criticisms about themselves, or they’d ask, ‘What did 
I do wrong?’ And when you told them, they’d nod their head, pull 
out their notebook, and take notes. That right there, that’s a guy 
who’s going to make it, who’s going to get it right. The arrogant 
guys, who lacked humility, they couldn’t take criticism from 
others—and couldn’t even do an honest self-assessment because 
they thought they already knew everything. Stay humble or get 
humbled.”
318 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

ON THE IMPORTANCE OF DETACHMENT
“I was probably 20 or 21 years old. I was in my first SEAL platoon. 
We’re on an oil rig in California doing training. We’d come up on 
this level of this oil rig, and we’ve never been on an oil rig before. 
There’s gear and boxes and stuff everywhere on these levels, and 
you can see through the floors because they are steel grating—
not solid material. It’s a complex environment. So, we come up, 
and we all get on this platform and, because of the complexity, 
everybody freezes.
  “I’m kind of waiting. I’m a new guy, so I don’t really feel like I 
should be doing anything. But then I said to myself, ‘Somebody’s 
got to do something,’ so I just did what’s called ‘high port’ with 
my gun: I pointed my gun up toward the air [to indicate] ‘I’m 
not a shooter right now.’ I took one step back off the line, looked 
around, and I saw what the picture was.
  “Then I said, ‘Hold left, move right.’ Everybody heard it, and 
they did it. And I said to myself, ‘Hmmm . . . that’s what you need 
to do: step back and observe.’ I realized that detaching yourself 
from the situation, so you can see what’s happening, is absolutely 
critical. Now, when I talk to executives or mid-level managers, I 
explain to them that I’m doing that all the time.
  “It sounds horrible, but it’s almost like, sometimes, I’m not a 
participant in my own life. I’m an observer of that guy who’s doing 
it. So, if I’m having a conversation with you and we’re trying to 
discuss a point, I’m watching and saying [to myself ], ‘Wait, am I 
being too emotional right now? Wait a second, look at him. What 
is his reaction?’ Because I’m not reading you correctly if I’m seeing 
you through my own emotion or ego. I can’t really see what you’re 
thinking if I’m emotional. But if I step out of that, now I can see 
the real you and assess if you are getting angry, or if your ego is 
getting hurt, or if you’re about to cave because you’re just fed up 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 319

with me. Whereas, if I’m raging in my own head, I might miss all 
of that. So being able to detach as a leader is critical.”

✱ Who do you think of when you hear the word “successful”?
“The first people who come to mind are the real heroes of Task 
Unit Bruiser: Marc Lee, first SEAL killed in Iraq. Mike Monsoor, 
second SEAL killed in Iraq, posthumously awarded the Medal of 
Honor after he jumped on a grenade to save three of our other 
teammates. And finally, Ryan Job, one of my guys [who was] 
gravely wounded in Iraq, blinded in both eyes, but who made 
it back to America, was medically retired from the Navy, but 
who died from complications after the 22nd surgery to repair 
his wounds. Those guys, those men, those heroes, they lived, and 
fought, and died like warriors.”

✱ Most-gifted or recommended books?
“I think there’s only one book that I’ve ever given and I’ve only 
given it to a couple people. That’s a book called About Face, by 
Colonel David H. Hackworth. The other book that I’ve read mul-
tiple times is Blood Meridian [by Cormac McCarthy].”

✱ Favorite documentaries?
“Restrepo, which I’m sure you’ve seen. [TF: This was co-produced 
and cofilmed by Sebastian Junger, the next profile.] There is also 
an hour-long program called ‘A Chance in Hell: The Battle for 
Ramadi.’ ”

QUICK TAKES
✱ You walk into a bar. What do you order from the bartender?
“Wat e r.”
320 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

✱ What does your diet generally look like?
“It generally looks like steak.”

✱ What kind of music does Jocko listen to?
Two samples:
  For workouts—Black Flag, My War, side B
  In general—White Buffalo

BEHIND THE SCENES

➢  Peter Attia (page 59) introduced me to Jocko. I once 
   witnessed Peter interview Jocko on stage. Peter said to 
   the crowd, “Jocko can do 70 strict pull-ups . . .” and Jocko 
   quickly interjected with, “No, I can’t do 70 pull-ups. I can 
   do 67.”

➢  Jocko is a big fan of the Hardcore History podcast, hosted 
   by Dan Carlin (page 285), as am I.

➢  When Jocko slept at my house following our interview, my 
   then-girlfriend woke me up the next morning at 8 a.m. 
   with “Ummm . . . I think he’s been up reading for 5 hours 
   already. What should I do?”

➢  The only time I’ve seen Jocko’s eyes bug out was when I told 
   him that I first learned to swim in my 30s. He texted me the 
   following while I was working on this chapter: “Thanks for 
   putting me in this book. . . . One day I will repay you, oddly 
   enough, by tying your feet together and your hands behind 
   your back and making you swim/survive.”
DEREK SIVERS

Derek Sivers (TW/FB: @sivers, sivers.org) is one of my favorite 
humans, and I often call him for advice. Think of him as a phi-
losopher-king programmer, master teacher, and merry prankster. 
Originally a professional musician and circus clown (he did the 
latter to counterbalance being introverted), Derek created CD 
Baby in 1998. It became the largest seller of independent music 
online, with $100 million in sales for 150,000 musicians.
  In 2008, Derek sold CD Baby for $22 million, giving the pro-
ceeds to a charitable trust for music education. He is a frequent 
speaker at TED conferences, with more than 5 million views of his 
talks. In addition to publishing 33 books via his company Wood 
Egg, he is the author of Anything You Want, a collection of short 
life lessons that I’ve read at least a dozen times. I still have an early 
draft with highlights and notes.

BEHIND THE SCENES

➢  Derek has read, reviewed, and rank-ordered 200+ books at 
  sivers.org/books. They’re automatically sorted from best to 
  worst. He is a huge fan of Charlie Munger, Warren Buffett’s 
  business partner, and introduced me to the book Seeking 
  Wisdom: From Darwin to Munger, by Peter Bevelin.

➢  He  read Awaken the Giant Within by Tony Robbins (page 
  210) when he was 18, and it changed his life.
322 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

➢  I posted the following on Facebook while writing this 
   chapter: “I might need to do a second volume of my next 
   book, 100% dedicated to the knowledge bombs of Derek 
   Sivers. So much good stuff. Hard to cut.” The most upvoted 
   comment was from Kevin O., who said, “Put a link to the 
   podcast and have them listen. It’s less than two hours, and 
   it will change their life. Tim, you and Derek got me from 
   call center worker to location-independent freelancer with 
   more negotiation power for income and benefits [than] I 
   previously imagined. You both also taught me the value 
   of ‘enough’ and contentment and appreciation, as well as 
   achievement.” That made my week, and I hope this makes 
   yours: fourhourworkweek.com/derek

“IF [MORE] INFORMATION WAS THE ANSWER, THEN 
WE’D ALL BE BILLIONAIRES WITH PERFECT ABS.”
TF: It’s not what you know, it’s what you do consistently. (See Tony 
Robbins, page 210.)

“HOW TO THRIVE IN AN UNKNOWABLE FUTURE? 
CHOOSE THE PLAN WITH THE MOST OPTIONS. 
THE BEST PLAN IS THE ONE THAT LETS YOU 
CHANGE YOUR PLANS.”
TF: This is one of Derek’s “Directives,” which are his one-line rules 
for life, distilled from hundreds of books and decades of lessons 
learned. Others include “Be expensive” (see Marc Andreessen, 
page 170), “Expect disaster” (see Tony Robbins, page 210), and 
“Own as little as possible” (see Jason Nemer, page 46, and Kevin 
Kelly, page 470).
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 323

✱ Who do you think of when you hear the word “successful”?
“The first answer to any question isn’t much fun because it’s just 
automatic. What’s the first painting that comes to mind?Mona  
Lisa. Name a genius. Einstein. Who’s a composer? Mozart.
  “This is the subject of the book Thinking, Fast and Slow by 
Daniel Kahneman. There’s the instant, unconscious, automatic 
thinking and then there’s the slower, conscious, rational, delib-
erate thinking. I’m really, really into the slower thinking, break-
ing my automatic responses to the things in my life and slowly 
thinking through a more deliberate response instead. Then for the 
things in life where an automatic response is useful, I can create 
a new one consciously.
  “What if you asked, ‘When you think of the word “success-
ful,” who’s the third person that comes to mind? Why are they 
actually more successful than the first person that came to 
mind?’ In that case, the first would be Richard Branson, because 
he’s the stereotype. He’s like the Mona Lisa of success to me. Hon-
estly, you might be my second answer, but we could talk about 
that a different time. My third and real answer, after thinking it 
through, is that we can’t know without knowing a person’s aims.
  “What if Richard Branson set out to live a quiet life, but like 
a compulsive gambler, he just can’t stop creating companies? 
Then that changes everything, and we can’t call him successful 
any m ore .”
  TF: This is genius. Ricardo Semler, CEO and majority owner of 
the Brazil-based Semco Partners, practices asking “Why?” three 
times. This is true when questioning his own motives, or when 
tackling big projects. The rationale is identical to Derek’s.

FOR PEOPLE STARTING OUT — SAY “YES”
When Derek was 18, he was living in Boston, attending the 
Berklee College of Music.
324 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  “I’m in this band where the bass player, one day in rehearsal, 
says, ‘Hey man, my agent just offered me this gig—it’s like $75 
to play at a pig show in Vermont.’ He rolls his eyes, and he says, 
‘I’m not gonna do it, do you want the gig?’ I’m like, ‘Fuck yeah, 
a paying gig?! Oh, my God! Yes!’ So, I took the gig to go up to 
Burlington, Vermont.
  “And, I think it was a $58 round-trip bus ticket. I get to this pig 
show, I strap my acoustic guitar on, and I walked around a pig 
show playing music. I did that for about 3 hours, and took the 
bus home, and the next day, the booking agent called me up, and 
said, ‘Hey, yeah, so you did a really good job at the pig show. . . .’
  “So many opportunities, and 10 years of stage experience, came 
from that one piddly little pig show. . . . When you’re earlier in your 
career, I think the best strategy is to just say ‘yes’ to everything. 
Every little gig. You just never know what are the lottery tickets.”

THE STANDARD PACE IS FOR CHUMPS
“Kimo Williams is this large, black man, a musician who attended 
Berklee School of Music and then stayed there to teach for a while. 
. . . What he taught me got me to graduate in half the time it 
would [normally] take. He said, ‘I think you can graduate Berklee 
School of Music in two years instead of four. The standard pace 
is for chumps. The school has to organize its curricula around 
the lowest common denominator, so that almost no one is left 
out. They have to slow down, so everybody can catch up. But,’ he 
said, ‘you’re smarter than that.’ He said, ‘I think you could just 
buy the books for those, [skip the classes] and then contact the 
department head to take the final exam to get credit.’ ”

DON’T BE A DONKEY
  TIM: “What advice would you give to your 30-year-old self?”
  DEREK: “Don’t be a donkey.”
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 325

  TIM: “And what does that mean?”
  DEREK: “Well, I meet a lot of 30-year-olds who are trying to 
pursue many different directions at once, but not making progress 
in any, right? They get frustrated that the world wants them to 
pick one thing, because they want to do them all: ‘Why do I have 
to choose? I don’t know what to choose!’ But the problem is, if 
you’re thinking short-term, then [you act as though] if you don’t 
do them all this week, they won’t happen. The solution is to think 
long-term. To realize that you can do one of these things for a few 
years, and then do another one for a few years, and then another. 
You’ve probably heard the fable, I think it’s ‘Buridan’s ass,’ about 
a donkey who is standing halfway between a pile of hay and a 
bucket of water. He just keeps looking left to the hay, and right to 
the water, trying to decide. Hay or water, hay or water? He’s unable 
to decide, so he eventually falls over and dies of both hunger and 
thirst. A donkey can’t think of the future. If he did, he’d realize 
he could clearly go first to drink the water, then go eat the hay.
  “So, my advice to my 30-year-old self is, don’t be a donkey. 
You can do everything you want to do. You just need foresight 
and patience.”

BUSINESS MODELS CAN BE SIMPLE: YOU DON’T 
NEED TO CONSTANTLY “PIVOT”
Derek tells the story of the sophisticated origins of CD Baby’s 
business model and pricing:
  “I was living in Woodstock, New York, at the time, and there 
was a cute, tiny record store in town that sold consignment CDs 
of local musicians on the counter. So, I walked in there one day, 
and I said, ‘Hey, how does it work if I wanna sell my CD here?’ 
And she said, ‘Well, you set the selling price at whatever you want. 
We just keep a flat $4 per CD sold, and then just come by every 
week, and we’ll pay you.’ So, I went home to my new website that 
326 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

night and wrote ‘You set your selling price at what you want, we’ll 
just keep a flat $4 per CD sold, and we’ll pay you every week.’ And 
then, I realized that it took about 45 minutes for me to set up a 
new album into the system, because I had to lay the album art on 
the scanner, Photoshop it and crop it, fix the musicians’ spelling 
mistakes in their own bio, and all that kinda stuff.
  “I thought 45 minutes of my time, that’s worth about $25. That 
shows you what I was valuing my time at in those days. So, I’ll 
charge a $25 setup fee to sign up for this thing. And, then, oooh . 
. . in my head, $25 and $35 don’t feel very different when it comes 
to cost. $10 is different, and $50 is different, but $25, $35—that 
occupies the same space in the mind. So you know what? I’m 
gonna make it $35, that will let me give anyone a discount any 
time they ask. If somebody’s on the phone and upset, I’ll say, ‘You 
know what? Let me give you a discount.’ So, I added in that little 
buffer so I could give people a discount, which they love. So $35 
setup fee, $4 per CD sold, and then, Tim, for the next 10 years, 
that was it. That was my entire business model, generated in 5 
minutes by walking down to the local record store and asking 
what they do.”

ONCE YOU HAVE SOME SUCCESS — IF IT’S NOT A 
“HELL, YES!” IT’S A “NO”
This mantra of Derek’s quickly became one of my favorite rules 
of thumb, and it led me to take an indefinite “startup vacation” 
starting in late 2015. I elaborate on this on page 385, but here’s 
the origin story:
  “It was time to book the ticket [for a trip he’d committed to 
long ago], and I was thinking, ‘Ugh. I don’t really want to go to 
Australia right now. I’m busy with other stuff.’ . . . I was on the 
phone with my friend Amber Rubarth, who’s a brilliant musician, 
and I was lamenting about this. She’s the one who pointed out, 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 327

‘It sounds like, from where you are, your decision is not between 
yes and no. You need to figure out whether you’re feeling like, 
“Fuck yeah!” or “No.” ’
  “Because most of us say yes to too much stuff, and then, we 
let these little, mediocre things fill our lives. . . . The problem 
is, when that occasional, ‘Oh my God, hell yeah!’ thing comes 
along, you don’t have enough time to give it the attention that you 
should, because you’ve said yes to too much other little, halfass 
stuff, right? Once I started applying this, my life just opened up.”

“BUSY” = OUT OF CONTROL
“Every time people contact me, they say, ‘Look, I know you must 
be incredibly busy . . .’ and I always think, ‘No, I’m not.’ Because 
I’m in control of my time. I’m on top of it. ‘Busy,’ to me, seems to 
imply ‘out of control.’ Like, ‘Oh my God, I’m so busy. I don’t have 
any time for this shit!’ To me, that sounds like a person who’s got 
no control over their life.”
  TF: Lack of time is lack of priorities. If I’m “busy,” it is because 
I’ve made choices that put me in that position, so I’ve forbidden 
myself to reply to “How are you?” with “Busy.” I have no right 
to complain. Instead, if I’m too busy, it’s a cue to reexamine my 
systems and rules.

✱ What would you put on a billboard?
“I really admire those places, like Vermont and São Paulo, Brazil, 
that ban billboards. But, I know that that wasn’t really what you 
were asking. So, my better answer is, I think I would make a bill-
board that says, ‘It Won’t Make You Happy,’ and I would place it 
outside any big shopping mall or car dealer. You know what would 
be a fun project, actually? To buy and train thousands of parrots 
to say, ‘It won’t make you happy!’ and then let them loose in the 
328 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

shopping malls and superstores around the world. That’s my life 
mission. Anybody in? Anybody with me? Let’s do it.”

TAKE 45 MINUTES INSTEAD OF 43 — IS YOUR 
RED FACE WORTH IT?
“I’ve always been very Type-A, so a friend of mine got me into 
cycling when I was living in L.A. I lived right on the beach in 
Santa Monica, where there’s this great bike path in the sand that 
goes for, I think, 25 miles. I’d go onto the bike path, and I would 
[go] head down and push it—just red-faced huffing, all the way, 
pushing it as hard as I could. I would go all the way down to one 
end of the bike path and back, and then head home, and I’d set 
my little timer when doing this. . . .
  “I noticed it was always 43 minutes. That’s what it took me to go 
as fast as I could on that bike path. But I noticed that, over time, I 
was starting to feel less psyched about going out on the bike path. 
Because mentally, when I would think of it, it would feel like pain 
and hard work. . . . So, then I thought, ‘You know, it’s not cool for 
me to associate negative stuff with going on the bike ride. Why 
don’t I just chill? For once, I’m gonna go on the same bike ride, 
and I’m not going to be a complete snail, but I’ll go at half of my 
normal pace.’ I got on my bike, and it was just pleasant.
  “I went on the same bike ride, and I noticed that I was standing 
up, and I was looking around more. I looked into the ocean, and 
I saw there were these dolphins jumping in the ocean, and I went 
down to Marina del Rey, to my turnaround point, and I noticed in 
Marina del Rey, that there was a pelican that was flying above me. 
I looked up. I was like, ‘Hey, a pelican!’ and he shit in my mouth.
  “So, the point is: I had such a nice time. It was purely pleasant. 
There was no red face, there was no huffing. And when I got back 
to my usual stopping place, I looked at my watch, and it said 45 
minutes. I thought, ‘How the hell could that have been 45 minutes, 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 329

as opposed to my usual 43? There’s no way.’ But it was right: 45 
minutes. That was a profound lesson that changed the way I’ve 
approached my life ever since. . . .
  “We could do the math, [but] whatever, 93-something-percent 
of my huffing and puffing, and all that red face and all that stress 
was only for an extra 2 minutes. It was basically for nothing. . . . 
[So,] for life, I think of all of this maximization—getting the 
maximum dollar out of everything, the maximum out of every 
second, the maximum out of every minute—you don’t need to 
stress about any of this stuff. Honestly, that’s been my approach 
ever since. I do things, but I stop before anything gets stressful. . . .
  “You notice this internal ‘Argh.’ That’s my cue. I treat that 
like physical pain. What am I doing? I need to stop doing that 
thing that hurts. What is that? And, it usually means that I’m 
just pushing too hard, or doing things that I don’t really want to 
be doing.”

ON LACK OF MORNING ROUTINES
“Not only do I not have morning rituals, but there’s really nothing 
that I do every day, except for eating or some form of writing. 
Here’s why: I get really, really, really into one thing at a time. For 
example, a year ago I discovered a new approach to programming 
my PostgreSQL database that made all of my code a lot easier. I 
spent 5 months—every waking hour—just completely immersed 
in this one thing.
  “Then after 5 months, I finished that project. I took a week and 
I went hiking in Milford Sound in New Zealand. Totally offline. 
When I got back from that, I was so zen-nature-boy that I spent 
the next couple of weeks just reading books outside.”
330 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

✱ What’s something you believe that other people think is crazy?
“Oh, that’s easy. I’ve got a lot of unpopular opinions. I believe 
alcohol tastes bad, and so do olives. I’ve never tried coffee, but I 
don’t like the smell. I believe all audio books should be read and 
recorded by people from Iceland, because they’ve got the best 
accent. I believe it would be wonderful to move to a new country 
every 6 months for the rest of my life. I believe you shouldn’t 
start a business unless people are asking you to. I believe I’m 
below average. It’s a deliberate, cultivated belief to compensate for 
our tendency to think we’re above average. I believe the movie 
Scott Pilgrim vs. the World is a masterpiece. I believe that music 
and people don’t mix; that music should be appreciated alone 
without seeing or knowing who the musicians are and without 
other people around. Just listening to music for its own sake, not 
listening to the people around you and not filtered through what 
you know about the musician’s personal life.”

TREAT LIFE AS A SERIES OF EXPERIMENTS
“My recommendation is to do little tests. Try a few months of 
living the life you think you want, but leave yourself an exit plan, 
being open to the big chance that you might not like it after actu-
ally trying it. . . . The best book about this subject isStumbling  on 
Happiness by Daniel Gilbert. His recommendation is to talk to 
a few people who are currently where you think you want to be 
and ask them for the pros and cons. Then trust their opinion since 
they’re right in it, not just remembering or imagining.”
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 331

“EVEN WHEN EVERYTHING IS GOING TERRIBLY, 
AND I HAVE NO REASON TO BE CONFIDENT, I JUST 
DECIDE TO BE.”
“There’s this beautiful Kurt Vonnegut quote that’s just a throwaway 
line in the middle of one of his books, that says, ‘We are whatever 
we pretend to be.’ ”

THE MOST SUCCESSFUL EMAIL DEREK EVER WROTE
At its largest, Derek spent roughly 4 hours on CD Baby every six 
months. He had systematized everything to run without him. 
Derek is both successful and fulfilled because he never hesitates 
to challenge the status quo, to test assumptions. It doesn’t have to 
take much, and his below email illustrates this beautifully.

Enter Derek
When you make a business, you’re making a little world where you 
control the laws. It doesn’t matter how things are done everywhere 
else. In your little world, you can make it like it should be.
  When I first built CD Baby, every order had an automated email 
that let the customer know when the CD was actually shipped. At 
first, it was just the normal, “Your order has shipped today. Please 
let us know if it doesn’t arrive. Thank you for your business.”
  After a few months, that felt really incongruent with my 
mission to make people smile. I knew could do better. So I took 
20 minutes and wrote this goofy little thing:

  Your CD has been gently taken from our CD Baby shelves with 
sterilized contamination-free gloves and placed onto a satin pillow.
  A team of 50 employees inspected your CD and polished it to 
make sure it was in the best possible condition before mailing.
332 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  Our packing specialist from Japan lit a candle and a hush fell 
over the crowd as he put your CD into the finest gold-lined box 
that money can buy.
  We all had a wonderful celebration afterwards and the whole 
party marched down the street to the post office where the entire 
town of Portland waved “Bon Voyage!” to your package, on its way 
to you, in our private CD Baby jet on this day, Friday, June 6th.
  I hope you had a wonderful time shopping at CD Baby. We sure 
did. Your picture is on our wall as “Customer of the Year.” We’re all 
exhausted but can’t wait for you to come back to CDBABY.COM!!

  That one silly email, sent out with every order, has been so 
loved that if you search Google for “private CD Baby jet” you’ll 
get more than 20,000 results. Each one is somebody who got the 
email and loved it enough to post on their website and tell all 
their friends.
  That one goofy email created thousands of new customers.
  When you’re thinking of how to make your business bigger, it’s 
tempting to try to think all the big thoughts, the world-changing, 
massive-action plans.
  But please know that it’s often the tiny details that really thrill 
someone enough to make them tell all their friends about you.
SEBASTIAN JUNGER

Sebastian Junger (TW: @sebastianjunger, sebastianjunger.com) is 
the #1 New York Times best-selling author of The Perfect Storm, 
Fire, A Death in Belmont, War, and Tribe. As an award-winning 
journalist, he has received both a National Magazine Award and 
a Peabody Award. Junger is also a documentary filmmaker whose 
debut film, Restrepo, co-directed with Tim Hetherington, was 
nominated for an Academy Award and won the Grand Jury Prize 
at Sundance. Restrepo, which chronicles the deployment of a pla-
toon of U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan’s Korengal Valley, is widely 
considered to have broken new ground in war reporting. Junger 
has since produced and directed three additional documentaries 
about war and its aftermath.

“HOW DO YOU BECOME A MAN IN A WORLD THAT 
DOESN’T REQUIRE COURAGE?”
Elaboration: “In terms of our communities and our society at 
home, we [thankfully] no longer have to organize young men and 
prepare them for group violence so that we can survive. That’s 
been the human norm for 2 million years, either from predators 
or from other humans. . . . If you don’t give young men a good and 
useful group to belong to, they will create a bad group to belong 
to. But one way or another, they’re going to create a group, and 
they’re going to find something, an adversary, where they can 
demonstrate their prowess and their unity.”
334 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

THE CALMING EFFECT OF ACTING INSTEAD OF WAITING
“The special forces guys were the opposite [of those in the 
non-elite divisions]. As soon as they heard they were about to 
experience an overwhelming attack, their cortisol levels dropped. 
They got super calm. The reason their cortisol levels dropped was 
because it was stressful for them to wait for the unknown, but as 
soon as they knew they were going to be attacked, they had a plan 
of action. They started filling sandbags. They started cleaning their 
rifles. They started stockpiling their ammo, getting the plasma 
bags ready, whatever they do before an attack. All of that busyness 
gave them a sense of mastery and control that actually made them 
feel less anxious than just waiting around on an average day in a 
dangerous place.”

THE UPSIDE OF DISASTER
“What’s very fortunate, beautiful, wonderful, and also, in a weird 
way, tragic about modern society, is that crisis has been removed. 
When you reintroduce a crisis like in the Blitz in London or an 
earthquake that I wrote about in Avezzano, Italy, early in the 
20th century, [things change]. In Avezzano, something like 
95% of the population was killed. I’m going from memory, but 
unbelievable casualty, just like a nuclear strike. . . . People had to 
rely on each other, so everyone—upper-class people, lower-class 
people, peasants, and nobility—sort of crouched around the same 
campfires. One of the survivors said, ‘The earthquake gave us 
what the law promises but does not, in fact, deliver, which is the 
equality of all men.’ ”

     “That feeling of ‘us,’ it buffers many people from 
     their psychological demons.”
     —Sebastian discussing why unifying disasters and crisis, 
     like 9/11 or the World War II Blitz bombings on London, 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 335

     often results in dramatic decreases in suicide, violent 
     crime, mental illness symptoms, etc.

THE POINT OF JOURNALISM IS THE TRUTH
“The point of journalism is the truth. The point of journalism is 
not to improve society. There are things, there are facts, there are 
truths that actually feel regressive, but it doesn’t matter, because 
the point of journalism isn’t to make everything better. It’s to give 
people accurate information about how things are.”

ON MOST “WRITER’S BLOCK” IN NONFICTION
“It’s not that I’m blocked. It’s that I don’t have enough research 
to write with power and knowledge about that topic. It always 
means, not that I can’t find the right words, [but rather] that I 
don’t have the ammunition. . . . I don’t have the goods. I have not 
gone into the world and brought back the goods that I’m writing 
about, and you never want to solve a research problem with lan-
guage. You never want to . . . thread the needle and get through a 
thin patch in your research just because you’re such a prose artist.”

DON’T USE VERBAL CRUTCHES
“God, I really dislike laziness. . . . There are these clichés like ‘the 
mortar slammed into the hillside.’ I just don’t want to read that 
again. Say it in an original way or don’t say it. You’re wasting 
everybody’s time, including your own, if you rely on these sorts 
of linguistic tropes.”

HIS MESSAGE AT A HIGH SCHOOL COMMENCEMENT
“You guys are programmed to succeed. The hardest thing you’re 
ever going to do in your life is fail at something, and if you don’t 
start failing at things, you will not live a full life. You’ll be living a 
cautious life on a path that you know is pretty much guaranteed to 
336 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

more or less work. That’s not getting the most out of this amazing 
world we live in. You have to do the hardest thing that you have 
not been prepared for in this school or any school: You have to be 
prepared to fail. That’s how you’re going to expand yourself and 
grow. As you work through that process of failure and learning, 
you will really deepen into the human being you’re capable of 
being.”

✱ What advice would you give your younger self?
“I would say to myself, ‘The public is not a threat.’ When you 
realize that we all need each other, and that we can all learn from 
each other, your stage fright goes away.”

✱ What would your 70-year-old self advise your current self?
“The world is this continually unfolding set of possibilities and 
opportunities, and the tricky thing about life is, on the one hand 
having the courage to enter into things that are unfamiliar, but 
also having the wisdom to stop exploring when you’ve found 
something worth sticking around for. That is true of a place, of a 
person, of a vocation. Balancing those two things—the courage 
of exploring and the commitment to staying—and getting the 
ratio right is very hard. I think my 70-year-old self would say: ‘Be 
careful that you don’t err on one side or the other, because you 
have an ill-conceived idea of who you are.’ ”

WHAT WOULD YOU DIE FOR?
At the end of our 2-plus-hour conversation, I asked Sebastian if 
he had any parting thoughts.
  “Who would you die for? What ideas would you die for? The 
answer to those questions, for most of human history, would have 
come very readily to any person’s mouth. Any Comanche would 
tell you instantly who they would die for and what they would 
      Profiles of Modern-day Stoics from Tools of Titans 337

die for. In modern society, it gets more and more complicated, 
and when you lose the ready answer to those ancient human 
questions, you lose a part of yourself. You lose a part of your 
identity. I would ask people, ‘Who would you die for? What would 
you die for? And what do you owe your community?’ In our case, 
our community is our country. What do you owe your country, 
other than your taxes? Is there anything else you owe all of us? 
There’s no right answer or wrong answer, but it’s something that 
I think everyone should ask themselves.”

✱ Most-gifted or recommended book?
At Play in the Fields of the Lord by Peter Matthiessen

BEHIND THE SCENES

➢  I first met Sebastian at Josh Waitzkin’s (page 577) wedding, 
  who described him via text as: “One of the leanest writers I 
  know. So little bullshit between the muscle.”

➢  Sebastian is a big guy and doesn’t look like a runner, but he 
  can move. He has clocked 4:12 for the mile, 9:04 for 2 miles, 
  24:05 for 5 miles, and 2:21 for a marathon.

➢  After our interview in my home, I had tea, and Sebastian 
  took a few minutes to fire off emails from his laptop. I 
  noticed him typing with one hand and asked him if he’d 
  injured himself. He laughed sheepishly and explained there 
  was no injury. As it turns out, Sebastian never learned to 
  touch type. He has written all of his books and articles by 
  hunting and pecking with one hand. Incredible.

  28 BOOKS ON STOICISM
                       A
    The (Hopefully) Ultimate Reading List 
                  by Hristo Vassilev 


The best part about Stoicism is that you can go to the primary 
texts, read them and feel like they were written yesterday, not 2000 
years ago. You can pick up Seneca, Marcus Aurelius or Epictetus 
and find the writing fresh as ever. In them, we find the wisdom 
to help us overcome adversity, find serenity and live well. They 
contain timeless truths and wisdom for any era.
  But what if you wanted to go deeper? What if you wanted to 
read commentary and biographies on the practitioners? How did 
the philosophy develop over the years? What do the critics have 
to say? How did Stoicism inspire cognitive behavioral therapy 
(CBT)? Or maybe you want to find a fiction book that is inspired 
by Stoicism? Or just a simple introductory text for beginners? It’s 
that curiosity that led me to ask the Stoicism community on reddit 
earlier this year for suggestions on the best books on Stoicism as 
well as looking around online for recommendations (including 
helpful lists on Goodreads and from Massimo Pigliucci). I want 
to thank Massimo as well as everyone from the reddit community 
who contributed to the discussion.
340 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

  That research led to the below list—what I would call is (hope-
fully) the ultimate collection of books on—or inspired by—Sto-
icism with a short description to give you a taste. And one last 
thing, I wrote this primarily for myself as a list for books to read 
this year. I have read most, but not all.
  I’ve started the list with some of my absolute favorites that I 
consider must reads but most of the list is not structured in a 
particular order. 
  Enjoy!

The Inner Citadel: The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius 
by Pierre Hadot 
Pierre Hadot, one of the most prominent scholars of ancient phi-
losophy, has written a remarkable guide to both Marcus Aurelius 
and his Meditations. Despite being academic and a translation 
from Hadot’s French, this book is readable and offers unparal-
leled insights into Marcus, his influences and into Stoicism as a 
philosophy. Read this book!

Philosophy as a Way of Life: Spiritual Exercises from Socrates 
to Foucault by Pierre Hadot 
If you end up loving Pierre Hadot’s book on Marcus, Philoso-
phy as a Way of Life is a natural next step. While not focusing 
uniquely on Stoicism, this book is a key text in understanding 
how philosophy is more than an academic discipline isolated from 
real life, but something to guide us and orient us—and most of 
all—something to be practiced. In this book Pierre Hadot does 
a fantastic introduction to the concept of ‘spiritual exercises’ and 
offers examples from multiple philosophers. (After these two, if 
you like Hadot, I’d also recommend you check out his book The 
Present Alone is Our Happiness. Thanks to Ryan Holiday for rec-
ommending Hadot’s work.)
                              28 Books on Stoicism 341

The Daily Stoic by Ryan Holiday and Steve Hanselman 
The Daily Stoic offers 366 days of Stoic insights and exercises, 
featuring all-new translations from Marcus Aurelius, Seneca, 
Epictetus, as well as lesser-known Stoics like Zeno, Cleanthes, and 
Musonius Rufus. Each page offers a quote and an accompanying 
meditation. It is probably the best place to start for someone who 
has zero familiarity with Stoicism. 

Courage Under Fire: Testing Epictetus’s Doctrines in a Labora-
tory of Human Behavior by James Stockdale
Avid business readers are probably familiar with the ‘Stockdale 
paradox’ from the bestselling book Good to Great. As its author 
explained it, the paradox captures Stockdale’s resilient mindset 
who endured terrible difficulties and adversity as a prisoner of 
war in Vietnam. As the author wrote, “You must retain faith that 
you will prevail in the end, regardless of the difficulties. AND at 
the same time… You must confront the most brutal facts of your 
current reality, whatever they might be.” The paradox aside, this 
is a fantastic short book by Stockdale himself that shows how 
Stoicism can provide the necessary principles and fortitude to 
survive such an ordeal.

Dying Every Day: Seneca at the Court of Nero by James Romm 
James Romm’s book on Seneca is both a great biography on the 
man that can help those students of Stoicism who feel conflicted 
about Seneca—the complexities of being a wealthy philosopher 
who was a tutor to one of the worst tyrants in ancient history—to 
better understand him as well as to dive deeper into the political 
and social context of the time. It is also a case study of a despot 
gone mad and the paranoid regime that he gave rise to.
342 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

Stoicism and the Art of Happiness by Donald Robertson
Donald Robertson’s book was highly recommended by the Stoic 
community on reddit. The book has great reviews and as one 
reader wrote, “In my opinion, Robertson is superior to Hadot, 
Long, or any other writer on Stoicism because of his Psycho-
therapy background and his ability to reach the common man.”

Rome’s Last Citizen: The Life and Legacy of Cato, Mortal 
Enemy of Caesar by Robert Goodman and Jimmy Soni 
Cato is probably the closest we have to a perfect Stoic. As one 
of the authors, Jimmy Soni, wrote “The Stoics taught Cato that 
there were no shades of gray. There was no more-or-less good, 
no more-or-less bad. Whether you were a foot underwater or a 
fathom, you were still drowning. All virtues were one and the 
same virtue, all vices the same vice.” This is an incredible book 
that shows what it means to fully live according to one’s principles 
even if that means dying for them.

A Man in Full by Tom Wolfe 
For those looking for a work of fiction that includes the Stoics, 
this should be your first stop. Tom Wolfe’s famous novel features 
Epictetus who gets discovered by mistake by Conrad Hensley, a 
young man who at that point in time has nobody—his wife had 
given up on him, his car was towed, was out of work and was in 
jail, where he gets sent by mistake a copy of Epictetus’s book. The 
book was heralded as a ‘masterpiece’ and back in 1999 the New 
York Times wrote on the revival of Stoicism due to the book’s 
influence.
                              28 Books on Stoicism 343

The Philosophy of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy: Stoic Phi-
losophy as Rational and Cognitive Psychotherapy 
by Donald Robertson 
Another book by Donald Robertson on the list, this time explor-
ing the fascinating origins of CBT—one of the most effective 
forms of therapy out there—and how Stoicism plays an impor-
tant role in its development. [Ed. An interview with Donald is 
included in the Tao of Seneca and he offers a great answer on the 
origins and parallels between the therapy and the philosophy.]

A Guide to the Good Life: The Ancient Art of Stoic Joy 
by William Irvine 
This is probably one of the most famous modern introductory text 
for beginners. The book is very readable and like other books on 
the list provides a great introduction to the philosophy for people 
who are looking to begin their deeper understanding of Stoicism.

The Obstacle is the Way by Ryan Holiday 
While Ryan Holiday’s The Obstacle Is the Way is not a book about 
Stoicism, it is a book inspired by Stoicism and its key principles 
for thriving under pressure. Through historical examples of great 
men and women it teaches us how to overcome adversity and 
difficulties, turn obstacles upside down and shows us how to love 
our fate, no matter what it might bring. The book has become a 
cult classic with coaches and athletes alike and has been featured 
in prominent outlets like Sports Illustrated and ESPN.

Ego is the Enemy by Ryan Holiday
If Ryan’s previous book is about facing external obstacles, this 
one turns around, challenging us and invites us to look inward 
and how we are too often our own worst enemy. Similar to The 
Obstacle Is the Way the book draws on examples from philosophy, 
344 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

literature and history helping us curb our ego no matter where we 
are on our trajectory—aspiring, achieving or failing.

The Consolations of Philosophy by Alain de Botton 
(part on Seneca) 
While this book has only one chapter that is directly about Sto-
icism—the one on Seneca—I highly recommend this book. It 
offers wise advice from multiple philosophers—from Schopen-
hauer to Epicurus to Montaigne. If you are looking for a book to 
supplement your studies on Stoicism with related ideas, this is a 
great starting point. You can also watch this video on YouTube 
from Alain de Botton and his journey to Rome and what Seneca 
can teach us about mastering our anger.

Antifragile: Things That Gain from Disorder 
by Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
I was first introduced to Stoicism and Seneca in Nassim Taleb’s 
The Black Swan. It is one of my favorite books but I’d be more 
inclined to recommend his Antifragile’s chapter on Seneca which 
provides one of the best and most succinct explanation of the 
philosophy and how its principles can help us both in times of 
prosperity and in moments of difficulty.

Examined Lives: From Socrates to Nietzsche by James Miller 
A New York Times Notable Book for 2011, James Miller’s Exam-
ined Lives explores the lives of twelve famous philosophers—
Seneca including—looking for wisdom and guidance. Similar to 
Alain de Botton’s book on the list, the chapter on Seneca alone 
is worth it but any student of Stoicism can benefit from reading 
about Diogenes, Socrates, Montaigne and others to find helpful 
bits that lead us to living a little bit better each day.
                              28 Books on Stoicism 345

Stoic Warriors: The Ancient Philosophy behind the Military 
Mind by Nancy Sherman 
Nancy Sherman, a distinguished University Professor of Philoso-
phy at Georgetown, looks at the history of Stoicism in the military. 
This book can be heavy at times and if you are looking for a lighter 
introduction to how Stoicism can help soldiers you can look into 
Stockdale’s book earlier on the list. For those ready for a serious 
intellectual challenge, Nancy Sherman’s book is the next step.

Stoicism by John Sellars
John Sellars is a Research Fellow in the Department of Philosophy 
at King’s College London and his research interests are focused 
on Hellenistic and Roman philosophy, and Renaissance philoso-
phy. His focus has been on Stoicism and its reception. The Phi-
losophers’ Magazine called this book “the best introduction to 
the subject,” and another prominent Stoic scholar called it “both 
highly readable and yet based on solid academic study.”

Stoics, Epicureans, and Sceptics: An Introduction to Hellenis-
tic Philosophy by R. W. Sharples 
This book focuses not only on the Stoics but also on the Epicu-
reans as well as various sceptical traditions from the death of 
Alexander the Great in 323 BC to about AD 200. It’s the book of 
choice who are looking to understand the broader context and 
the adjacent philosophies.

The Stoics: A Guide for the Perplexed by Andrew Holowchak 
This book was recommended on the reddit thread and serves as 
an introductory text for those unfamiliar with the philosophy. It 
has been described as “a clear and lively introduction to Stoicism, 
with emphasis on ethics.” Its author, M. Andrew Holowchak, is 
Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Wilkes University.
346 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

The Stoics by F. H. Sandbach 
This book was also recommended in the reddit thread and while 
there is limited information online on the book, its reviews point 
that it’s a solid work on Stoicism: “Not only one of the best but 
also the most comprehensive treatment of Stoicism written in this 
century.” Times Literary Supplement

Stoicism and Emotion by Margaret Graver 
In this book, Margaret Graver argues that the chief demand of 
Stoic ethics is not that we should suppress or deny our feelings, 
but that to perfect our rational mind. A must-read book for any-
one who wants to better understand the connection between Sto-
icism and emotions and to help them develop strong arguments 
against the popular misunderstanding that the core focus of the 
philosophy is suppressing one’s emotions and feelings.

The Cambridge Companion to the Stoics by Brad Inwood 
I found this book as one of the top recommendations from Mas-
simo Pigliucci and I will let his strong endorsement speak for the 
book: “This unique volume offers an odyssey through the ideas 
of the Stoics in three particular ways: first, through the historical 
trajectory of the school itself and its influence; second, through 
the recovery of the history of Stoic thought; third, through the 
ongoing confrontation with Stoicism, showing how it refines phil-
osophical traditions, challenges the imagination, and ultimately 
defines the kind of life one chooses to lead.”

Everything Has Two Handles: The Stoic’s Guide to the Art of 
Living by Ronald Pies 
Ronald Pies, M.D. is Professor of Psychiatry and Lecturer on Bio-
ethics and Humanities at S.U.N.Y. and this book not only shows 
                              28 Books on Stoicism 347

how Stoicism can be path to happiness and tranquility but the 
author also draws from his own case studies as a therapist.

Philosophy for Life: And Other Dangerous Situations
by Jules Evans 

A New Stoicism by Lawrence C. Becker 
I discovered this book on Massimo Pigliucci’s list on the best 
books about Stoicism. It is reserved only for the most serious 
scholars. As Massimo explains, “It’s quite a difficult book to read 
in some ways; if you don’t have a certain amount of background 
in philosophy, you’re probably not going to get as much out of 
it as you should, although Becker himself is aware of this.” Yet 
he clarifies that “the main sections of each chapter can be read, 
can be understood, by somebody with little or no background in 
philosophy.”

The Greatest Empire: A Life of Seneca by Emily Wilson 
Of all the Stoic philosophers Seneca is prone to generate the most 
controversy. As the book description asks: “How can we reconcile 
the bloody tragedies with the prose works advocating a life of 
Stoic tranquility? How are we to balance Seneca the man of prin-
ciple, who counseled a life of calm and simplicity, with Seneca the 
man of the moment, who amassed a vast personal fortune in the 
service of an emperor seen by many, at the time and afterwards, as 
an insane tyrant?” If you are a fan of Seneca and want to study the 
man, make sure to read this biography as well as James Romm’s.

How to Be a Stoic: Using Ancient Philosophy to Live a Modern 
Life by Massimo Pigliucci 
In the Stoic community, Massimo Pigliucci needs no introduc-
tion. He is behind the popular “How to be a Stoic” blog which 
348 THE TAO OF SENECA | VOLUME 1

is “an evolving guide to practical Stoicism for the 21st century.” 
You also probably remember Massimo’s from his widely popu-
lar article on Stoicism in the New York Times from two years 
ago. Although his upcoming book is not yet out (May 2017), I’ve 
already preordered it knowing the high standards of Massimo’s 
work. His recommendations on his favorite books on Stoicism 
have also helped create this list as well. 

Marcus Aurelius: A Life by Frank McLynn 
I discovered this book on Massimo’s list and he describes as “the 
definitive biography to date of this monumental historical figure.” 
Before jumping into it or Pierre Hadot’s book, I’d recommend 
reading the fantastic introduction to Marcus that is in Gregory 
Hays’s translation of Meditations as well as Ryan Holiday’s one 
hundred lessons from Marcus Aurelius and this lecture series on 
YouTub e which provide fantastic starting points to Marcus.


